# Feeling Homesick

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 225:  Feeling Homesick.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 225.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and download the Learning Guide for this podcast.  Today's podcast is called “Feeling Homesick.”  Let's get started.  [Start of story]  Annie:  Why the long face?  Luis:  I don’t know.  I guess I’m feeling a little homesick.    Annie:  I thought you got over that.  I know the adjustment was hard when you first got here, but I thought you were coping pretty well.    Luis:  I was.  It’s just that the holidays are coming up and I won’t be able to go home because I can’t afford the airfare.  I’m just longing for some of the comforts of home, like my mom’s cooking and being around my family.  Annie:  Yeah, it can get pretty lonely over the holidays.  When I first got here, I’d get depressed and nostalgic for anything that reminded me of home.  But, you know, I think I was just seeing things through rose-colored glasses.  Luis:  What do you mean?  Annie:  Well, things back home weren’t really that idyllic, but from this distance, all I could think of was the good stuff and none of the bad.    Luis:  I see what you mean, but I’m still bummed out.  Annie:  I have an idea.  Why don’t we put on our own little holiday celebration?  We can have it at my place and we can invite all of our friends who are on their 