# Traveling by Train

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 253: Traveling by Train.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 253.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Take a look at our website at eslpod.com.  We have several new things on the website, including our ESL Podcast Store, which contains additional premium courses that we think you'll be interested in.  This episode is called “Traveling by Train.”  It's a conversation between two people talking about train travel in the United States, and some of the vocabulary you need when you take a train.  Let's get going!  > Katerina:  Hey, Joel.  Have you ever traveled by train?  Joel:  Only once, and that was a long time ago when I lived in Orlando.  I’m not even sure where the train station is in this city.  Why do you ask?  Katerina:  I need to go to San Francisco at the end of May for a friend’s wedding, and I’m thinking about taking a train instead of flying.    Joel:  That’s a long trip from Chicago, with a lot of stops.  How many days does it take to get there?     Katerina:  I just printed out the timetable.  Let me see...It looks like it’ll take about four-and-a-half days.  I would depart, say, on Tuesday morning and arrive on Saturday afternoon.  Joel:  Can I see that?  It looks like there are good on-board services, with a dining car and a lounge car on each train.  Katerina:  Yeah, I like that.  I don’t know if I should go coach or business class.  I suppose that’ll depend on the fare.  I’ve heard that the sleeping cars are pretty comfortable, too, so I’m glad about that.    Joel:  What day of the week do you have to leave? 