# Using an ATM

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 271: Using an ATM.  Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast episode 271.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at the many new features we now have on our website, including our ESL Podcast Store, where you can download additional premium courses that you may be interested in.  We have daily English courses, business courses, and others.    This podcast is called “Using an ATM.”  An “ATM” is an automatic teller machine.  It's a machine where you get money out of by putting a bankcard in.  We'll be listening to a dialogue between Robin and someone who works at the bank about using the ATM card and some problems you sometimes have.  Let's get started.  > I went to bank this morning.  Instead of standing in line to talk to a bank teller, I decided to use an ATM, but it wasn’t working.  Robin:  Excuse me.  Could you help me?  I’m trying to use this ATM machine, but it stopped working after I put in my PIN and it won’t give me back my ATM card.  Bank clerk:  It looks like the machine is jammed.  Step over to this teller window and I can help you.  What transactions are you trying to make?  Robin:  I want to make a deposit, transfer some money between my checking and savings accounts, and make a cash withdrawal.    Bank clerk:  I can make those transactions for you.    Robin:  Okay.  Let me take this check out of the deposit envelope.  And what about my card?    Bank clerk:  I’ll call the technician and she should be able to retrieve it for you.  Robin:  Thanks a lot.  I guess that the machine just doesn’t like me. 