# Living in a Condo or Co-op

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 294: Living in a Condo or Co-op.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 294.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript.  This episode is about two people talking about living in a “condo,” or condominium, or a co-op.  Let's get started.  > Diane:  I’m so exasperated!  I’m really tired of the homeowner’s association in my condo building.    Ricardo:  What’s the matter with it?  Diane:  The people who sit on the condo association board are a bunch of do-nothings.  I’ve filed complaint after complaint and they refuse to enforce the house rules.  Ricardo:  Well, that might not be so bad.  I used to live in a co-op in New York City.  The board of directors in my building was constantly issuing violations to the shareholders and we were fined for the smallest infraction.  It was a nightmare.  What kinds of complaints have you been filing?  Diane:  I’ve been complaining about my noisy neighbors.  They have parties every weekend.  The board said it sent letters to them, but nothing has changed.  Ricardo:  That’s a tough one.  It’s often hard to get people to quiet down.  Diane:  That’s not all.  The common areas aren’t well maintained, and they’re often dirty or in need of repair.  Ricardo:  That’s too bad... 