# All-Inclusive Vacations

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast episode 281: All-Inclusive Vacations.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 281.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at the ESL Podcast Store, where you will find some additional premium courses that you may be interested in.  In this episode, we're going to talk about a special kind of vacation called an “all-inclusive vacation.”  Let's get started.  > Mei:  Let’s go on an all-inclusive vacation to a resort in Jamaica!  Guy:  I’d like to go to Jamaica, but I don’t know about going to an all-inclusive resort.  Mei:  It saves so much time in planning.  With these vacation packages, all of our lodging is included and we don’t have to pay extra for anything.  For one fixed price, we get unlimited food and drinks, and all of the activities and entertainment we want.    Guy:  It sounds a little too predictable to me.  You know that when I travel, I like to go off the beaten track.  The fun is in going out of the tourist areas to find the real character of a place.  Mei:  I know, but a resort has its pluses.  If we pick a good resort, we’ll know that everything will be first rate.  There won’t be any problems with substandard amenities or service.  Guy:  That may all be true, but I’m still not convinced.  I’d rather keep looking until we find a good compromise that will have the predictability you want and the spontaneity that I want.     Mei:  Okay, but we agree on Jamaica, right?     Guy:  Yeah, that’s right.  It’s Jamaica or bust! 