# A Traffic Jam

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 287: A Traffic Jam.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 287.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  This episode is called “A Traffic Jam.”  It’s a story about someone who gets on the road to drive, and finds that there are many other cars there that are slowing traffic down.  Let’s get started.   > I was on my way to a restaurant to meet my date for dinner when I hit a traffic jam.  I saw that the road was congested, but since I had to take the bridge to reach downtown, I had no choice but to stay on that road.    The traffic was bumper-to-bumper.  One crazy driver even tried to drive on the shoulder to get around the backup.  But as it turns out, there wasn’t any way to bypass it because the backup wasn’t due to an accident, a stalled car or some rubberneckers.  It was because of road construction and only one lane was open.    After 25 minutes of stop-and-go traffic, I was at my wit’s end.  My date was sitting at the restaurant waiting for me and I didn’t have her cell phone number.  What’s more, I was really hungry.    Finally, I got past the road construction and was on my way again.  I drove a little recklessly, but I had to make up for lost time.  I really liked this girl.  The last thing I wanted was to make her think that I stood her up!
  Our story is called “A Traffic Jam” (jam).  A “traffic jam” is when you have too many cars on a road, and that causes them to move very slowly or not move at all.  So, if you have too much traffic – too many cars – you have a “traffic jam.”  Here in Los Angeles, we have lots of traffic jams almost every day. 