# Riding the Subway

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 290: Riding the Subway.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 290.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com, and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations of the idioms and terms we use in the dialogues, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Riding the Subway.”  Let's go!  > Misha:  I’d like to buy a token for the subway.  Clerk:  The subway doesn’t use tokens anymore.    Misha:  Oh?  I didn’t know that.  It’s been a few years since I visited New York.  How do I pay for the fare?    Clerk:  You can buy a ticket for a single ride that expires two hours after it’s issued.  If you’re going to be here all week, I’d suggest getting a seven-day card that gives you unlimited rides.  Otherwise, I’d recommend getting a MetroCard.  Misha:  I’m only here for two days.  How much is each ride?  Clerk:  It’s $2.00.  If you buy a MetroCard worth more than $10.00, you get a 20% discount.  So with a $10.00 card, you get six rides instead of five.  The card allows you to transfer to buses, too.  Misha:  Okay.  I’ll take a MetroCard worth $10.00.  How is the money deducted from my card?      Clerk:  The turnstile automatically deducts the fare each time you go through it.  Here’s your card.    Misha:  Thanks, but I’m not sure which line to take to Queens. 