# Being Rich and Poor

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 297: Being Rich and Poor.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 297.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional premium courses that you may be interested in.  This episode is a dialogue between Lynn and Santiago about being rich and being poor in the United States.  Let's get started.  > Lynn:  I’ve been trying to help Monica find an apartment, but it’s impossible to find anything affordable on this side of town and near her work.  The only thing that’s within her budget would require a 50-minute commute each way!  Santiago:  I know.  It’s become really ridiculous.  I’m reading an article about how the income gap between the rich and the poor in this country is getting wider and wider.  Poverty is the worst it’s ever been in cities like L.A., while you see affluence everywhere.    Lynn:  I know I poor-mouth sometimes, but at least I can afford the basic necessities.    Santiago:  Yeah, I do the same thing.  I feel like such a hypocrite sometimes.  The other day, I was feeling sorry for myself because I couldn’t afford the fancy new car I wanted.  My old car isn’t that old!  I’ve only had it for five years and it still works, most of the time.  I forget about people who don’t have a car and are living on food stamps.      Lynn:  Me, too.  Looking for an apartment with Monica has really put things into perspective for me.  The next time I complain about not having enough money for a pair of new shoes or to take a vacation, remind me of the great inequities of this world, will you? 