# Communication Problems

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 289: Communication Problems.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 289.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  How are you today?  Remember to visit our website – yes, we have a website! – at eslpod.com.  On the website, among other many exciting things, you can download one of our Learning Guides, which is a complete guide to each episode of this podcast.  Our episode today is called “Communication Problems.”  It's between two people – a dialogue between Ethel and Fred, who are a married couple having difficulty communicating with each other.  Let's get started.  > Ethel:  Can we talk?  Fred:  Uh-huh.  Ethel:  I don’t think we communicate very well.  We don’t talk to each other like we used to.  I think we need to have a dialogue about these dysfunctional communication patterns.    Fred:  Hmm.  Ethel:  I think we need to work on our relationship.  We have a strong foundation, but we have problems relating to each other.  Oprah says...  Fred:  Hold on!  Is this something you saw on the Oprah show?  Ethel:  Well, yes, it is.  Oprah did a show about how couples grow apart after years of being together, and good communication is the cornerstone of a good relationship.  Being a sympathetic listener and validating each other’s feelings are very important.    Fred:  Stop right there.  I’ll make you a deal.  I’ll communicate more with you, but you have to promise not to bring up Oprah again.  I don’t want a talk show host telling me how to run my life. 