# Cheating on a Test

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 250: Cheating on a Test.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 250.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    If you enjoy our podcast and want to improve your English even more, you can get a Learning Guide for each episode of the podcast that includes all of the vocabulary, the definitions, cultural notes and a complete transcript of this episode.  Go to our website at eslpod.com for more information.  This episode is called “Cheating on a Test,” and it's going to be a conversation between two students, one of whom wants to cheat, or to do something that is not allowed, in order to get a better grade on a test in school.  Let's get started.  > Oscar:  What are you doing?     Elena:  I’m getting ready for the test.  Oscar:  By writing the answers on a cheat sheet?  You’re not going to get away with that.    Elena:  I got a “D” on the last test and I have to do better on this one.  If I don’t get at least a “B,” I’m going to flunk this class.    Oscar:  You’re taking a big risk.  You could get suspended or expelled!  Elena:  I know, but my final grade is on the line.  And plus, I think that the worst that could happen is that I get an automatic “F” on the test.  It’s not like I’m stealing a copy of the test or plagiarizing on an important assignment.  Oscar:  Still, there’s no telling what Mr. McQuillan will do to you if he finds out.  I’d let you copy off my test if I thought we could get away with it, but he always keeps a close eye on us during tests.  That’s why I think you’re going to get caught. 