# Missing the Tour Group Bus

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 262:  Missing the Tour Group Bus.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 262.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com to download the Learning Guide for this episode as well as to look at some of the other new things we have on our website.  This episode is called “Missing the Tour Group Bus.”  It's going to be a conversation between a woman who is looking for her group that she is on a tour with - visiting; vacationing - and a man standing on the street.  Let's get started.  > Kelly:  Where is everybody?  Man:  Excuse me?  Were you talking to me?  Kelly:  Oh, no.  I was just talking to myself.  Our tour group was supposed to rendezvous here at five o’clock for our return trip to the hotel.  But there’s no trace of the bus and I don’t see any other people from my group anywhere.  Man:  You know, it’s 5:10.  Maybe the bus took off already.    Kelly:  That can’t be!  Our tour guide said that we would meet back here at five-ish.  She didn’t say precisely at five.    Man:  Maybe that’s what she meant.  You know, tour guides usually stick pretty closely to a time schedule.    Kelly:  Yes, I know, but what am I supposed to do now?  I don’t have any way to get back to the hotel.  Man:  Do you have the number of the tour company?  I could lend you my cell phone to call them.  Kelly:  Let me see.  No, I don’t.  I feel like such an idiot! 