# Getting Caught in the Rain

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 327: Getting Caught in the Rain.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-two-seven (327).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at wwwwww.eslpod.com – actually, there are just three “Ws.”  You can download a Learning Guide from our website, it will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our special courses on business and daily English, which we think you’ll like as well.  This episode is called “Getting Caught in the Rain.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Margo:  Oh geez, you’re drenched!  It wasn’t supposed to rain today.  Ali:  I know.  I looked at the weather report last night and it was supposed to be a nice day.  That’s the last time I trust those weathercasters!  I hate getting caught in the rain.  I’m soaking wet.  Margo:  When I felt a raindrop on my head this morning, I should have known that we were in for a big rainstorm.  Right then, I should have gone back into my house to get an umbrella, but as usual, I was running late.  Ali:  I can’t believe I have to go out on sales calls today.  I’m not looking forward to getting back in my car when it’s raining cats and dogs out there.  Margo:  Somebody in this office must have an umbrella you can borrow for the day.  I’ll go see.    Ali:  Thanks.  It looks like it’s only drizzling now.  Maybe it’s letting up.  Margo:  Don’t count on it.  It’ll be pouring again in a minute.  Let me see if I can round up an umbrella and maybe even a raincoat.  Ali:  Thanks.  I’ll be in the bathroom wringing out my clothes.  What a miserable day! 