# Going into the Military

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 367: Going into the Military.  This is ESL Podcast number 367.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page guide that will help improve your English even faster.  We also have our ESL Podcast Store, where you can buy additional courses in business and daily English I think you’ll enjoy.  This episode is called “Going into the Military.”  It’s a dialogue between Chantelle and Robert about life in the army, or in one of the military services.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Chantelle:  Attention!  Aren’t you supposed to salute?  Robert:  You’re not my superior officer.  Stop goofing around.  I’m busy.  Chantelle:  You’re packing already?  You don’t need to report to duty for two days.  Are you afraid they’ll think you went AWOL?  Robert:  I just want to be prepared.  Now, leave me alone so I can finish packing.  Chantelle:  Am I dismissed?  Maybe I want to enlist, too?  I think I would look good in camouflage make-up and fatigues.  Robert:  Being in the military is no laughing matter.  Do you really think that the most desperate recruiter would want you?    Chantelle:  That’s not very nice.  I have as much discipline as you do...about some things.  You may find yourself in a foxhole with me someday.  Robert:  Whatever deployment you’d get, I’d make sure I’m on the other side of the world!  [end of dialogue] 