# Traveling and Medical Needs

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 391: Traveling and Medical Needs.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 391.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Traveling and Medical Needs.”  It’s a dialogue that includes lots of vocabulary related to the kinds of medical problems you might have when you travel.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Delia:  Oh, my feet hurt!  We must have walked for four hours straight today.  I have blisters on my heels and bruises on my toes.  Where are my band-aids?    Yoshi:  Yeah, your feet look bad.  I told you not to wear new shoes on vacation, but you wouldn’t listen.  Delia:  Oh, yeah?  Look at you!  I told you to put on sunscreen, and did you?  Your face and neck are sunburned.  Your skin is going to be red and peeling tomorrow.  Yoshi:  I’ll be fine.  If it weren’t for my stomachache, I’d be ready to walk another four hours.    Delia:  I told you not to eat food from street vendors.    Yoshi:  My stomach is just feeling a little irritated and I have a little diarrhea.  It’s nothing serious.  Delia:  You probably have salmonella or food poisoning.      Yoshi:  No, I don’t!  Don’t be ridiculous.  Here are some band-aids.  Now leave me in peace.  Delia:  Fine.  I’ll let you suffer in silence.  I won’t say another word. 