# Describing Distances and Giving Directions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 309: Describing Distances and Giving Directions.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 309.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and go to our ESL Podcast Store where you can find several premium courses – additional courses on daily English and business English topics.  This episode is called “Describing Distances and Giving Directions.”  It’s going to be a dialogue between Daniella and someone who works at a hotel – a hotel clerk – about how to get to – how to arrive at – different places in the city.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Daniella:  Could you tell where I can find a drugstore?    Hotel clerk:  Sure.  There’s one up the street near the corner of Selma and Main.  If you get to Abreu Avenue, you’ve gone too far.  It’s set back from the street so it’s a little hard to find.  Daniella:  Oh, that’s okay.  I’ll keep an eye out for it.  Hotel clerk:  You know, I just remembered that there’s a bigger and better drugstore around the block.  It’s no more than a three-minute walk.  Go out the main doors of the hotel, hang a left, go straight for about a quarter of a mile, and then make another left at the first street.  Daniella:  Okay.  I think I’ve got that.  Thanks.  Hotel clerk:  Now, if you want a drugstore with a pharmacy, you’ll need to walk a little farther.  Go out these doors, walk roughly three blocks until you get to a dead end, turn right, cross the street, and you’ll see a bank.  It’s kitty-corner from the bank.  You should be able to walk there in five minutes, give or take.     Daniella:  Thanks.  Thanks a lot.  I think I’m all set.  See you later. 