# Investing Your Money

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 388: Investing Your Money.  This is ESL Podcast episode 388.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help improve your English even faster; we suggest you take a look at the Learning Guide.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store and an ESL Podcast Blog, where you can go and get additional courses in English and additional help each week on a variety of English language topics.  This episode is called “Investing Your Money.”  It’s going to be a speech, really, by someone who is trying to tell people – instruct people – how they should invest their money – how they should keep their money so that they can make more money.  Let’s get started.  [start of speech]  Ladies and Gentlemen,  Thank you for coming to today’s seminar.  We’re going to talk about how to invest your money and how to maximize those holdings.  First, we’ll talk about market trends and where to find the best opportunities right now.  Getting in on the ground floor and getting the highest appreciation is what we all want.  A good investor also knows when to divest, and we’ll talk about how to read the warning signs.  Many of you have money in savings, but you want a better rate of return, and you’re willing to speculate a little to get it.  We’ll discuss how to diversify your portfolio to minimize risk while maximizing your return.  Are you ready to make some money?  Let’s get started!  [end of speech]  This episode is about making money.  A man is giving a presentation – a seminar.  A “seminar” is a class for a small group of people on a specific subject. 