# Being a Divorced Parent

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 397: Being a Divorced Parent.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 397.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides contain all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using the words that we discuss in the episode, additional explanations not found on the audio podcast, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of every word we say on this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, where we have some additional business and personal English courses we think you will be interested in.  This episode is called “Being a Divorced Parent.”  It’s a dialogue between Oscar and Penny, talking about the problems, the sometimes difficulties, of being a parent, taking care of your son or daughter, when you are divorced – when you have legally separated from your husband or wife.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Oscar:  How are you adjusting to being a single parent?  Penny:  It hasn’t been easy, but Paul and I are trying to be as civil as possible.  We worked out joint custody so that Mina will get quality time with both of us.  Still, it’s been an adjustment for her.  Oscar:  I’m sure, and for you and Paul, too.  Will you get to see Mina when she’s with her father?  Penny:  We each have visitation rights.  Fortunately, Paul and I both want what’s best for Mina, so we’re working hard to make the right decisions.  Oscar:  If you don’t mind my asking, how are you managing financially?    Penny:  Neither of us is paying alimony to the other so that was never an issue, but Paul will be paying child support since I’ll have Mina most of the year.  Paul had no objections.  He’s been amenable to anything that would be good for Mina. 