# Mending a Broken Heart

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 383: Mending a Broken Heart.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 383.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional special courses in both business and daily English I think you may enjoy.  This episode is called “Mending (or fixing) a Broken Heart.”  A “broken heart” is when someone feels sad usually because a romantic relationship has ended.  I know how this feels – many, many times I have felt it!  We’ll hear a dialogue between David and Victoria about someone who has a broken heart.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  David:  Why has Joyce been moping around all week?  What’s wrong with her?  Victoria:  She’s suffering from a broken heart.  Her boyfriend broke up with her over the weekend.  They had been together for two years.    David:  Did she tell you the gruesome details?  Victoria:  Not really.  She just said that she’s feeling depressed and she didn’t want to talk about it, but you can see the grief all over her face.    David:  I can think of a way to cheer her up.  I’ve always wanted to go out with Joyce.  Maybe I’ll ask her out.  Victoria:  Wait a second.  I think she’s feeling pretty vulnerable right now, and there’s no way she’s ready to date yet.  I think you’re jumping the gun.    David:  There’s nothing better to help someone bounce back from a failed relationship than the promise of a new one. 