# Types of Hotels and Accommodations

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 382: Types of Hotels and Accommodations.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 382.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development, located in the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary and definitions for the main words of this episode.  It also includes sample sentences using the words in new sentences.  You will also find comprehension checks, additional definitions not found on the audio portion of this episode, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode – everything we say you can find on the Learning Guide.  This episode is called “Types of Hotels and Accommodations.”  It’s a dialogue between Jamal and Erin talking about the different places you can stay, and how we describe those hotels and other places in English.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jamal:  Have you found a place for us to stay in Chicago?  Erin:  I’m still exploring the options.  Instead of a run-of-the-mill chain hotel, I thought we could do something different.  Jamal:  How different?  Erin:  I thought we might stay in a cabin near the lake.    Jamal:  A cabin?  That sounds a little too rustic for me.  My days of roughing it in hostels or fleabag motels are over.  A cabin sounds like it would be in the same league.  Erin:  Oh, I don’t know.  There are some very nice cabins, and even if they’re less than luxurious, I don’t mind staying in a modest place.  We can’t afford an expensive boutique hotel, you know. 