# A Call from a Telemarketer

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 375: A Call from a Telemarketer.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 375.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode and all of our current episodes.  You can also visit our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in English you may be interested in.  This episode is called “A Call from a Telemarketer.”  A “telemarketer” is someone who calls you on the telephone to sell you something.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Doris:  Hello.  Telemarketer:  Hello, may I speak to the lady of the house?  Doris:  What is this regarding?  Telemarketer:  I’m calling from Cheetam Cable Company and we have a very special offer.  This month only, you can get a bundle of services for the low, low price of $69.99!  This offer...  Doris:  Thank you, but I’m not interested.  Telemarketer:  But that’s because you haven’t heard the rest of the offer yet.  If you sign up today, you will get at no extra charge, all of the equipment you’ll need to switch to our cable company.    Doris:  As I said, I’m not interested.  I’m also on the national do-not-call registry and I want to be taken off your call list.    Telemarketer:  If you’re on my list, it means that you have a prior relationship with our company and telemarketers are allowed to call you.  Now about that special offer... 