# Picking up a Rental Car

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 322: Picking up a Rental Car.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 322.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  There you can find all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional sample sentences, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Picking up a Rental Car.”  When you are traveling and you need a car, you can rent one.  You “pick it up” means you get it.  In this case, we’re going to hear a conversation between Ralph and someone who works for the rental car company, and we’ll hear all the common expressions and phrases you use when you are picking up a car.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Ralph:  I have a reservation for a car.  Clerk:  What is the last name on the reservation?  Ralph:  It’s Furcal.  Clerk:  Just one moment.  I have a reservation for Ralph Furcal, picking up today and returning on the 19th.    Ralph:  Yes, that’s right.  I reserved an economy car.  Clerk:  We do have an economy car reserved for you, but for $3.00 more per day, you can upgrade to a mid-sized car.  And, for only $5.00 more per day, you can upgrade to a convertible.  Would you like to take advantage of either of these offers?  Ralph:  No, thanks.  I’ll stick to the economy car.  Clerk:  That’s fine.  If you’ll just sign here and initial here, here, and here, please.  Would you like to purchase insurance for the car? 