# Describing the Taste of Food

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 353: Describing the Taste of Food.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 353.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  While you’re there, take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that contains several premium courses on business and personal English I think you’ll be interested in.  This episode is called “Describing the Taste of Food.”  It’s a dialogue between Steve and Elaine, where Elaine is going to talk about what she really thinks of Steve’s food, and also what she actually says to Steve – they’re not the same.  Let’s listen.  > Steve, my new boyfriend, decided to cook dinner for me.  I was really excited, that is, until I tried his cooking.  Steve:  What do you think of the soup?  I thought:  This is so bland, and what are these little lumpy things in the soup?  Of course I didn’t say that aloud.  Elaine:  It’s delicious.  It has a very interesting flavor.  When Steve served the main course, a baked chicken, he asked,  Steve:  What do you think of the chicken?  Is it too salty or spicy?  I thought:  Yes!  It’s too salty and it’s so spicy I can hardly eat it without breathing fire.  The outside of the chicken is overcooked and the inside is raw!  But out loud, I said,  Elaine:  No, not at all!  It has an interesting texture and I’m enjoying every bite.  I thought:  Oh, no.  Is there more?  Steve went into the kitchen and brought dessert. 