# Watching the Olympic Games

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 395: Watching the Olympic Games.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 395.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, home of the 1932 and 1984 Summer Olympic Games.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, additional definitions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  We’re going to talk today about some vocabulary related to the Olympic Games, in particular the Summer Olympics, since this episode is being released in the summer of 2008 when the Olympic Games will be held in Beijing, China.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Mary Lou:  Am I too late for the opening ceremony?    Jesse:  No, it’s just starting.  The runner is just coming into Olympic Village with the torch.    Mary Lou:  Oh, this is so exciting!  I love the summer Olympics.  Track and field, gymnastics, swimming – I can’t wait!  Jesse:  Oh, here come the athletes from each country, with their flag bearer in front.  Look at all those gold, silver, and bronze medalists.  Mary Lou:  Isn’t it funny that that country only has one competitor?  Jesse:  No way!  Can you imagine the accolades you’d get as the only athlete from your country that’s of Olympic caliber?  I’d trade places with her any day.    Mary Lou:  This schedule says that the track and field events begin tomorrow.  Jesse:  Yeah, but those are just the qualifying heats.  The real races don’t start for three days.  What’s that? 