# A Potential Partnership Meeting

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 304: A Potential Partnership Meeting.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 304.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, a comprehension check, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “A Potential (or possible) Partnership Meeting.”  It’s a dialogue between Flavio and Marcia about two companies that may try to work with each other.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Flavio:  Thanks for meeting with me.  Marcia:  It’s my pleasure.  We’re eager to hear your ideas about our companies doing business together in the future.  Flavio:  Well, I wanted us to meet because I think our two companies can create great synergy.    Marcia:  I agree.  What do you have in mind?  Flavio:  We seem to have core capabilities that complement each other, and I want to see how we can create a partnership that would be to our mutual benefit.  Marcia:  Yes, that’s why I’m here.  I think we’re thinking along the same lines.  Flavio:  Good.  I’m glad to hear that.  If we can pull off a partnership, we could really dominate the market.  Marcia:  Yes, I think that’s true, too, but let’s get beyond the preliminaries.  What kind of business model do you have in mind? 