# Describing People¡¦s Body Types

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 305: Describing People’s Body Types.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 305.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you learn English even faster.  You get all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional cultural notes, additional explanations of vocabulary not on the audio part of this podcast, as well as a complete transcript of this episode.  You can also visit our ESL Podcast Store, where we have some premium courses on business and daily-life English that we think you’ll be interested in.  This episode is called “Describing People’s Body Types,” describing their physical characteristics – what their body is like.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Remi:  We need to get these costumes sorted out.  I’m not sure we have ones that will fit each person in this play.  Bryan:  Let’s see.  We need a shirt for Hector.  He’s broad-shouldered, so this one would be too small.  Any luck finding one over there?  Remi:  No, but I think I found a dress for Lee Ann.  She’s petite and thin, and I hadn’t been able to find anything that would fit someone that slender.  All of the other dresses are for women with either pear-shaped or hourglass figures.  Bryan:  Okay, at least that’s some progress.  What about Malcolm?  Unlike his brother who is tall and skinny, he’s big and fat.  How are we going to find one to fit him?  Remi:  He’s not fat!  He’s stocky.  He is really muscular and not at all flabby.  Oh, here’s a pair of pants that would fit Pierre.  These are perfect, since he’s not long-legged like all of the other men.    Bryan:  We’re actually doing pretty well, I think.  Remi:  We just need a costume for you. 