# Filing Taxes

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 364: Filing Taxes.  This is ESL Podcast episode 364.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  You can go to our website at www.eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guides are designed to help you improve your English even faster.  They include all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences so you can test your comprehension by reading them.  We also have comprehension questions, additional definitions of words that we talk about here on the podcast; you’ll find cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  This episode is called “Filing Taxes.”  “To file,” here, means to send in your information to the government, and to pay the taxes that you must pay your state and national government, here in the U.S. anyway.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Ricky:  Aren’t you done with your taxes yet?  Shawn:  No, not yet.  Ricky:  Can I help?  Shawn:  That would be great.  I think I’m almost done, but it’d be great if you could look it over.  This is the first year I haven’t been exempt or filed an EZ tax return.  Ricky:  No problem.  What are brothers for?  Okay, you’ve entered your earnings, including your salary and dividends.  You have no dependents...  Shawn:  I just hope I picked the right number of withholdings.  I’d like to get a tax refund, rather than have to pay.    Ricky:  Well, you can take the standard deduction here, but I suggest itemizing your medical expenses and your charitable contributions.  It may make a big difference in the calculations. 