# An Annoying Cell Phone User

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 341: An Annoying Cell Phone User.  This is ESL Podcast episode 341.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, which has additional help in learning English throughout the week.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store, which contains additional business and daily English courses you might be interested in.  This episode is called “An Annoying Cell Phone User.”  Someone who is “annoying” is someone who bothers you, someone who is causing problems for you.  It’s a dialogue between Carl and Stephanie, who are sitting at a restaurant, and someone in the table next to them starts talking on their cell phone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Carl:  I’m sorry, say that again.  I couldn’t hear you over that guy at the next table shouting into his cell phone.  Stephanie:  That guy is so rude.  We’re trying to have a leisurely conversation over a cup of coffee, and we have to out shout some inconsiderate jerk.  Carl:  Do you think he realizes what a nuisance he is?  Stephanie:  I bet he doesn’t.  People don’t seem to have any idea of cell phone etiquette.  Cell phones should be banned from restaurants, don’t you think?    Carl:  I completely agree.  I don’t need to know the intimate details of other people’s lives.  I sometimes wish I had a cell phone jammer.  Like the other day, I was at the movie theater, and the woman sitting in front of me answers her cell phone and has a conversation during the movie!    Stephanie:  I would have kicked up a fuss or at least shushed her.    Carl:  I tried to shush her, but she pretended not to hear me.  I wish...[Carl’s cell phone rings]...hold on one second.  Hello, oh hi, Manny... 