# A Scandal

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 371: A Scandal.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 371.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you to improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in business and daily English we think you’ll enjoy.  This episode is a dialogue between Caridad and Nate; it’s called “A Scandal.”  A “scandal” is when someone does something wrong, and everyone is very angry – very upset about it.  Usually, it’s something that happens to a very public person, like a president or a governor.  This is a scandal about the president of a university.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Caridad:  Look at this!  The president of McQuillan University is stepping down.  He submitted his resignation this morning after an undergraduate student made allegations that they had an affair and that she’s pregnant with his baby.    Nate:  That’s terrible.  Maybe they were in love.    Caridad:  In love?  He’s married and has four kids, and when she first went public about the affair, he denied it and said that she had made up the whole story.  Would someone in love try to cover up something like this?  Nate:  Who knows?  The president of a major university is a person with a lot to lose.  I’m not making excuses for him, but maybe he lost his head.  Caridad:  Of course he had a lot to lose.  Anyone who is in the public eye like he is shouldn’t be playing with fire.  He’s an embarrassment to his family and to his university.  Nate:  I still think there could be extenuating circumstances.  All you know you’ve learned from one newspaper article. 