# A Suspicious Neighbor

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 313: A Suspicious Neighbor.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 313.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “A Suspicious Neighbor.”  It’s a dialogue between two people talking about one their neighbors – their new neighbors, someone who recently moved close to them – and whether this person is, perhaps, involved in something they should not be.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Patricia:  What do you think of our new neighbor?  Ray:  I don’t know.  I haven’t met him yet.  Patricia:  Me neither, but I think he’s a shady character.  Ray:  Why do you think that?  Patricia:  Well, when he was moving in, I tried to shoot the breeze with him and he was shifty.  When I asked him what line of work he was in, he was very evasive.  Ray:  Maybe he just didn’t want to talk to a busybody when he was busy moving boxes.  Have you thought of that?  Patricia:  I wasn’t being a busybody.  I was just being neighborly.  When I offered to help him, he practically kicked me out of his apartment.  Ray:  Okay, you must be right.  He’s probably a serial killer.  Patricia:  I wouldn’t put it past him.     Ray:  Come on.  My guess is that he just wants some peace and quiet. 