# Exercising at the Gym

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 385: Exercising at the Gym.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 385.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you approve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Exercising at the Gym.”  It’s a dialogue between Jae and Sally about common exercise-related vocabulary.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jae:  Hi, are you done with this weight machine?  Sally:  Yeah, I am.  I was just trying it out.  I think I must be doing something wrong.  My muscles are aching already.    Jae:  Maybe I can help.  I’ve been working out on these machines for a few months, so I’m pretty used to them.  Sally:  I just joined the gym this week.  I usually do a cardio workout on a treadmill or stationary bike, and I’ve used free weights at home before.  But now it makes sense to do my strength-training here.  Jae:  Have you thought about getting a personal trainer?  When I joined, I signed up for a trainer for a few sessions and she helped me set up a good regimen.  Sally:  That’s a good idea.  Jae:  If you want help with those machines, though, I’m usually here every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.  Sally:  Thanks, I’ll definitely look out for you.  I’m Sally.    Jae:  I’m Jae.  Nice to meet you.  Sally:  You, too.  I think I’ve sweated enough today.  I’m off to the locker room. 