# Buying a Men¡¦s Suit

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 301: Buying a Men’s Suit.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 301.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our Learning Guides.  You can also look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has several premium courses you may be interested in.  This episode is all about someone who is buying – a man, who is buying a suit, a formal piece of clothing that you would wear to a business meeting or a wedding, for example.  There will also be vocabulary here more generally about buying clothes.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sales clerk:  Good afternoon.  What can I help you find?  Bo:  I’m looking for a suit for work.    Sales clerk:  I’m sure we have something for you.  Are you looking for a traditional or contemporary suit?  Bo:  I’m not sure.  I’d like to try on some different ones.  Sales clerk:  That’s no problem.  Let me show you a few over here.  This is a two-button pinstripe suit that’s made of 100% wool and has a flat front.  What do you think?  Bo:  It looks nice.  How about this one?  Sales clerk:  Oh, this is a very fine suit.  As you can see, it’s double-breasted and is fully lined.  The pants are pleated.  Would you like to try it on?  Bo:  Sure.    Sales clerk:  Just follow me to the dressing rooms in the back.  Here you are.  My name is Caroline.  Just let me know if you need anything. 