# A Traditional Wedding

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 303: A Traditional Wedding.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 303.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store; it has some additional premium courses in daily conversational English and business English.  You can also take a look at our “English Through Stories” mystery, Deadly Letters.  This episode is about a traditional wedding that you would find in the United States.  Let’s get started.  > I arrived at my friend Karin’s wedding a little late and the ceremony had already begun.  I’ve been to a lot of civil ceremonies, but it had been a while since I had attended a religious one.  They had asked a minister to officiate.  When I arrived, Karin and her fiancé, Jan, were standing in front of the church.  Minister:  We are gathered here today to join Jan and Karin in holy matrimony.  If there is anyone here who knows of a reason why these two should not be joined in marriage, speak now or forever hold your peace.  Fortunately, no one said anything.    Minister:  Jan and Karin, please face each other and join hands.  Minister:  [To Jan]  Do you, Jan Casanova, take Karin Valentine, to be your lawfully wedded wife, to have and to hold, to love and to cherish, for better and for worse, for richer and for poorer, in sickness and in health, ‘till death do you part.  Jan said, “I do,” and the minister asked Karin the same question, and she said, “I do,” as well. 