# An Untrustworthy Co-worker

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 392: An Untrustworthy Co-worker.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 392.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains additional information to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “An Untrustworthy Co-worker.”  It’s a dialogue between Vicky and Gerard talking about someone they work with who cannot be trusted.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Vicky:  Did I imagine it or did you just give Gavin the cold shoulder?  Gerard:  You didn’t imagine it.  I’m not too happy with him.  Vicky:  Why?  What did he do?  Gerard:  He’s two-faced, that’s why.  Last week, he told me he was going to put in a good word for me with the manager for a promotion.    Vicky:  So that sounds like a nice thing to do.  Gerard:  I thought so, too.  But as it turns out, I heard from Elanda that he was bad-mouthing me behind my back.    Vicky:  Are you sure?  Gerard:  I’m sure.  He told Elanda that he thought I had gone pretty far in the company for someone who had dropped out of college.  That’s a backhanded compliment, if I’ve ever heard one.  Vicky:  That sounds pretty nasty.  At least the manager wasn’t around.    Gerard:  She wasn’t, but who’s to say what he told her behind my back? 