# Starting a Franchise Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 356: Starting a Franchise Business.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 356.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions that we don’t discuss on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  If you’re interested in improving your English as fast as possible, then the Learning Guide is for you!  On this episode, we are going to talk about starting a franchise business.  This is a business that pays a larger company for the right – for the permission to use their goods – their services.  For example, McDonald’s is a large restaurant company; you can buy a franchise.  You can open your own McDonald’s and use their material – their food by paying money to the larger McDonald’s company.  We’re going to hear a dialogue between Magdalena and Phil about opening a franchise.  It includes lots of other general business vocabulary as well.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Magdalena:  Thanks for meeting with me today.  I’ve read through the materials your company sent me, but I still have some questions about opening a franchise.  Phil:  That’s what I’m here for.  What questions can I answer for you?  Magdalena:  Well, I’m familiar with the franchise fee, but are there recurring fees not listed in these materials?  Phil:  That’s a good question.  In addition to the annual franchise fee and the monthly royalties, we also charge a training fee and an advertising fee.  Here’s a list of these and other fees.    Magdalena:  Oh, that’s very useful, thanks.  I was also wondering what kinds of quality controls the franchises are subject to. 