# Traveling by Bus

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 330: Traveling by Bus.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 330.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Traveling by Bus.”  It’s a dialogue between Samantha and an employee of the bus company; they’re talking about different kinds of bus travel.  We’ll go over some vocabulary in this dialogue that you would need if you were going to travel by bus in English.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  (telephone ring)  Samantha:  Good morning.  I had a few questions about buying a bus ticket.  Do I need to buy one in advance?    Agent:  You can, but it’s not necessary.  You just need to arrive at the terminal at least an hour before the scheduled departure time to buy your ticket.  Boarding begins about 15 to 30 minutes before departure.  Samantha:  Can I reserve a seat?  Agent:  No, seating is on a first-come, first-serve basis.  I recommend getting there early during peak times, but getting a good seat isn’t usually a problem with the night service buses.  Samantha:  I want to go from Charlestown to Myrtle Beach.  Do you know how many stops the bus will be making?  Agent:  I think that bus makes six stops to pick up passengers en route, but you can check the schedule to be sure.  That doesn’t include rest stops and meal 