# Refusing an Invitation

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 338: Refusing an Invitation.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 338.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which contains business and daily English courses we think you’ll be interested in.  In this episode, we’re going to hear a dialogue between June and Roberto about an invitation that they have received from someone, and how they are going to say no to that invitation.  Some good vocabulary here on refusing a request or refusing an invitation.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  June:  Did you get an invitation to Kelly’s party?  Roberto:  Yes, I did.  I’m going to send my regrets.  How about you?  June:  I’m trying to find an excuse not to attend, without Kelly taking offense.  Roberto:  Couldn’t you just tell her that you have another engagement that night?  June:  I used that little white lie last time I turned down one of her invitations.  I have to think of something else.  Roberto:  How about telling her that you have to take care of a sick relative?  That one always works for me.    June:  I’ve used that one, too.  I told her that I was looking after my mother the last time she invited me to dinner.  Roberto:  How about if you tell her you’re on a special assignment at work and you have to work night and day to get it done?  June:  That’s a little far-fetched, don’t you think?  I work as a store clerk.  Roberto:  You’ve got a point there. 