# Parts of a City

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 398: Parts of a City.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 398.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  We have a website at eslpod.com.  Go there today and download a Learning Guide for this episode, a special 8 to 10 page guide that gives you all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of every word we say on the episode.  This episode is called “Parts of a City.”  It’s a dialogue between Tanya and Darren using vocabulary that we have to describe different parts of a city.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Tanya:  We’ve been here for three days and I’m still getting lost.  Darren:  Here’s a map.  These are the residential neighborhoods.  See?  This is where we’re staying.  Tanya:  I know, I know.  But where were we today?  The tour bus went down so many alleys that I lost my bearings after 10 minutes.  I thought we were going in circles.    Darren:  Look, we drove through downtown first, past the financial district.  Next, we drove past the housing projects to the historic district.    Tanya:  I remember all that.    Darren:  Okay, then.  From the historic district, we drove through uptown.  Got that?  Tanya:  Yeah, that’s where things get a little hazy.  How did we get to the outskirts of town?  One minute we were in uptown, and the next minute, we were at the city limits. 