# Washing the Car

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 463: Washing the Car.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 463.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You probably know that, you probably also know you can download a Learning Guide for this episode on our website to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Washing the Car.”  It’s a story about what happened when I went to get my car washed, and of course, it will use a lot of vocabulary that is related to washing your car.  Let’s get started.  > I was driving down the road when I saw a group of teenagers holding up signs for a fundraising car wash for their school.  My car was very dirty, so I pulled over and paid for a car wash and a wax.  I think that the students had more enthusiasm than car washing skills.  Yes, they had hoses, buckets filled with soapy water, and sponges, but they seemed more interested in getting each other wet than in getting the dirt off the car.  I kept wanting to jump up and say, “Hey, you missed a spot!” but I didn’t.    After washing the car, they rinsed it and dried it with towels.  They also vacuumed the interior and washed the windows.  At least the windows were spotless.  Finally, they waxed and polished the car, and were finished.    I went over to inspect the washed car.  All I can say is I’m glad this was a fundraiser to support their school.  If these students do as well in their classes as they did on my car, they need all the education they can get!
  This is an interesting story for me because I actually worked at a car wash when I was 15 years old; it was my very first paying job.  I worked washing cars and drying them with towels.  It was maybe one of the worst jobs I’ve ever had, but 