# Describing Boring and Exciting Things

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 465: Describing Boring and Exciting Things.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 465.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Describing Boring and Exciting Things.”  It’s a dialogue between Ina and Paco who go to see different movies and describe them as being exciting or boring.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Ina:  It was a great idea to split up to go see different movies.  I really liked The McQuillanator!  Paco:  I’m glad to hear it.  You made a better choice than I did.  The biopic I saw was mind-numbing.  I was bored to death!  Ina:  Really?  My movie was great.  It was action-packed and fast-paced.  I was on the edge of my seat from beginning to end.  Paco:  I wish I had been.  My movie moved at a snail’s pace and what was supposed to be dramatic was just repetitive.  I can’t believe I sat through that entire thing.  I’m sure I nodded off more than once.  Ina:  That’s too bad.  You should have abandoned your theater and joined me in mine.  I’m still feeling the adrenaline rush.  Paco:  Yeah, but instead I got a good nap.  What a waste of money!  Ina:  Just consider it a good lesson learned.  Paco:  What lesson?  Ina:  Let me pick the movies.  I know a good bang for the buck! 