# Ending a Business Relationship

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 688: Ending a Business Relationship.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 688.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  Even faster than what, you ask?  Even faster than drinking beer!  On this episode, we’re going to hear a dialogue between Jerry and Camila about what happens when two companies or two people decide to end their business partnership or relationship.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jerry:  Who’s going to break the news to Tech Experts?  Camila:  You mean about pulling the plug on using their services?  Jerry:  Yeah, the contract we signed with them last year is almost up, and as we decided last month, we’ll be going with another company.  Camila:  I think we should hold off on telling them until after all of our current projects are done.  We still have two more in the hopper.  Jerry:  Okay, but I don’t want to drag our feet in telling them, even if we’re not happy with their service.  As a professional courtesy, we should let them know soon.  Camila:  That may be true with other companies, but Tech Experts has really let us down this past year.  If we didn’t have an airtight contract with them, we would have switched companies long ago.  Jerry:  Well, maybe they’ll learn from their mistakes.  After all, they’ve been in business a long time. 