# Praising a Performance

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 603: Praising a Performance.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 603.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Support this podcast, help keep the audio files free for everyone by becoming a member of ESL Podcast.  You can get more information on our website.  This episode is called “Praising a Performance.”  It’s a dialogue between Claudia and Javier.  They’ll be talking about a performance, I believe it’s like a play in a theater, and using vocabulary that you would use to describe performances such as plays or movies.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Claudia:  Oh, that was so good.  I’ve never seen anything better.  Bravo!  Bravo!  Javier:  There’s no need for a standing ovation and stop gushing.  The performers did a passable job.  It was nothing to write home about.  Claudia:  You are so jaded.  That performance was genius.  It took my breath away.  Javier:  I thought the first number was okay, and none of the dancers embarrassed themselves, but that’s all I can say about it.    Claudia:  I’m sure they’d thank you for that faint praise.  Me?  I’ve never seen anything better.  Javier:  Now how can you say that?  That’s just over the top.    Claudia:  If I can’t be effusive, who can?  How many times will we see our granddaughter in a school play?  Javier:  She’s seven years old and she played a tomato!  Claudia:  Yes, but don’t forget: she played the lead tomato! 