# Being Pestered on the Phone

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 607: Being Pestered on the Phone.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 607.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in – everyone together – beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and become a member of ESL Podcast and help support us – keep us going.  You can get all of our Learning Guides that we have available that will help you improve your English faster when you become a Premium Member of our podcast.  This episode is called “Being Pestered on the Phone.”  Being “pestered” means being bothered.  It’s a dialogue between Gisele and Nobu about Nobu’s girlfriend who keeps calling.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Gisele:  Our phone has been ringing off the hook all weekend.  What’s the deal?  Nobu:  I think it’s Jeanine.    Gisele:  Jeanine…Jeanine…Is that the woman you’ve been going out with?  Nobu:  Yeah, it’s her.  I tried to let her down easy, but she’s not taking the hint.    Gisele:  I see.  That’s why you’ve been screening calls.  Why don’t you just talk to her and tell her that you don’t think you’re right for each other, take the direct approach?  Nobu:  I figure if I don’t take her calls for a few more days, she’ll get the message.  Gisele:  Are you sure?  There are 14 new voicemail messages.  How many of those do you think are from Jeanine?  Nobu:  All of them.  I let calls go to voicemail if I see her phone number on caller ID.  I guess I should listen to those messages – sooner or later. 