# Working on Commission

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 648: Working on Commission.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 648.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide will help you improve your English even faster – and if you eat it, save money on food!  This episode is called “Working on Commission.”  Dennis and Irene are having a conversation.  Dennis is a salesman; his job is to sell things to other people.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Dennis:  I just got a new sales job and I’m going to be making a bundle.  Irene:  What kind of job is it?    Dennis:  I’ll be working strictly on commission.  The more I sell, the more I earn.  It’s a great opportunity for someone with my talents in sales.  Irene:  I know you’re great at sales and I’m sure you’ll do well, but you can’t coast in a job based on commissions.  You’ll have to work really, really hard.  Dennis:  I’m not worried.  For me, selling is second nature.  I’ll barely have to lift a finger and the profits will come rolling in.  Irene:  But isn’t your paycheck going to be in flux all the time?  You’ll never know what your take-home pay will be.    Dennis:  There’s no cap on how much I can earn, so the sky’s the limit.    Irene:  That’s not exactly what I meant.  Some weeks, it may be hard to live on what you earn, don’t you think?  Dennis:  What?  Do I hear a hint of uncertainty in your voice? 