# Feeding a Picky Eater

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 677: Feeding a Picky Eater.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 677.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, on a beautiful sunny day here in Los Angeles.  I’m not so sunny; I have allergies, I have problems that affect my nose and throat today.  So if I sound stranger than usual – I mean I always sound a little strange, right? – now you know why.  Oh, by the way, we have a Learning Guide for this episode.  You do not to want to miss it; you want to get it at our website at eslpod.com.  This episode is called “Feeding a Picky Eater.”  It’s a dialogue between Jeremy and Keeley.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jeremy:  It’s really nice of you to make dinner for me tonight.    Keeley:  I’m glad to do it.  You’re been so helpful to me, it’s only fair that I return the favor.  I hope you’ve brought your appetite.    Jeremy:  You bet.    Keeley:  Great!  Here’s the first course, a light soup.  How do you like it?  Jeremy:  It has an interesting flavor.    Keeley:  You don’t care for it.  Jeremy:  It’s just a little greasy for my taste.  Keeley:  Sorry about that.  Why don’t you try this dish?  It’s an old family recipe.  What’s wrong?  Jeremy:  Oh, nothing.  I just don’t think it’s agreeing with me.  Maybe it’s an acquired taste.  Keeley:  Okay, maybe I can whip up something else for you… 