# Fad Dieting

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 827: Fad Dieting.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 827.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Just six letters – well, six letters, a dot, and a (com) will give you an entire world of English.  You can download a Learning Guide for each of these wonderful episodes on our website.  This episode is a dialogue between Joel and Beatrice.  They’re talking about trying to lose weight by using some recently popular methods.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Joel:  You don’t look so hot.  Are you okay?  Beatrice:  I’m perfectly fine.  Joel:  Oh, and you’re grouchy, too.  Don’t tell me.  You’re dieting again.  Beatrice:  Just leave me alone.  I’m not popping pills or anything like that.  I’m just trying to shed a few pounds the natural way.  Joel:  The natural way?  You mean like that diet you were on a few months ago where you only ate Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?  Or that other diet you were on before where you drank 50 cups of water a day?  Beatrice:  Those were fad diets that didn’t work.  I’m onto a new diet that’s guaranteed to take away those unwanted pounds and to reveal my slimmer self.  Joel:  You sound like a commercial, or an infomercial.  Is that where you found this diet, on some late-night infomercial?  Beatrice:  It doesn’t matter where I heard about this diet.  It only matters that it’s scientifically proven to help people lose weight.  Joel:  All right.  I need to shed a few pounds.  What’s the secret diet?  Beatrice:  I’m not telling you.  You’ll only make fun of it. 