# Mergers and Acquisitions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 868: Mergers and Acquisitions  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 868. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.   Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there, become a member of ESL Podcast, and download the very useful Learning Guide to this episode.   This episode is a dialog between Marisol and Lamar about one company buying another company. Let’s get started.  [start of dialog]  Marisol:  What do you think of the big announcement this morning?  Lamar:  That our company is going to merge with McQ Corp.?  From what I’ve heard through the grapevine, this isn’t a merger but a hostile takeover.  Marisol:  But the CEO said this morning that our company and McQ Corp. are equals in this merger, and the integration of the two companies will be seamless.  Lamar:  Don’t you believe it!  McQ Corp. has a history of taking over companies with high valuations and a lot of assets and selling it off in pieces.  This is no friendly acquisition.  Marisol:  But what about all of that talk about our two companies consolidating into a strong business entity and creating great synergy?  Didn’t you buy any of that?  Lamar:  Not one word.  When McQ Corp. is through with us, we’ll be lucky to still have the shirts on our backs!  [end of dialog]  Marisol begins by saying to Lamar, “What do you think of the big” – or important – “announcement this morning?” An “announcement” is when you are given some piece of news, usually from someone in authority, like your boss or the president of the United States. Lamar says, “That our company is going to merge 