# Losing Employees to Other Companies

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 812: Losing Employees to Other Companies.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 812. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, United States of America.  Our website is eslpod.com. You know that, of course. You also know that if you become a member of ESL Podcast, you can download a Learning Guide. That Learning Guide is your key to better English. It's the way of improving your English faster than anything else.  Our dialogue is about when someone who works for a company gets hired by another company and leaves. This happens all the time especially to good employees. Let's get started.  [start of dialogue]  Diego:  That’s three in six months!  Natalie:  What’s three in six months?  Diego:  That’s three of this company’s employees who have been hired away by other companies. First, there was Lamar. I wasn’t surprised that headhunters were interested in Lamar, since he was clearly a rising star.  Natalie:  Yeah, Lamar was a tough loss. His unique set of skills is hard to duplicate.  Diego:  You’re telling me! We haven’t been able to find a replacement. After Lamar, there was Sariah. Sariah is a classic case of brain drain. There are great jobs in McQuillanland, with lucrative pay and a low cost of living. I’m not surprised Sariah took that job.  Natalie:  Sariah was very talented. We couldn’t match the offer she received and she took the better deal.  Diego:  And today, Melinda tells me that she’s probably going to accept an offer from a startup that’s made her an offer she can’t refuse. 