# Setting Timers and Alarms

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 1,224 – Setting Timers and Alarms.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 1,224. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to ESLPod.com and take a look at our ESL Podcast Learning Guides. Our Learning Guides contain complete transcripts of everything we say on these episodes, in addition to a complete glossary – that is, definitions of our keywords – as well as sample sentences using those keywords.   This episode is a dialogue between Laquisha and Yun about getting a reminder when you need to do something by using a timer. Let’s get started.   [start of dialogue]  Laquisha: What’s in the bag?  Yun: Three alarm clocks and a kitchen timer.  Laquisha: What are they for?  Yun: I have a very important interview tomorrow morning and these will help me prepare for it.   Laquisha: How?  Yun: The timer will help me time my responses to common interview questions so I don’t run off at the mouth. See? Instead of the stopwatch function, I use the countdown function so I’ll know when to wrap up.  Laquisha: And the alarm clocks?  Yun: I have a habit of pressing the snooze button after an alarm goes off. I’ve tried different kinds of alarms: ones that buzz, ones that beep, ones that vibrate, and ones that use a ringtone. But I still fall back to sleep.  Laquisha: And what do you plan to do with three alarm clocks?       