# Buying a Men¡¦s Suit

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 301: Buying a Men’s Suit.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 301.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our Learning Guides.  You can also look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has several premium courses you may be interested in.  This episode is all about someone who is buying – a man, who is buying a suit, a formal piece of clothing that you would wear to a business meeting or a wedding, for example.  There will also be vocabulary here more generally about buying clothes.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sales clerk:  Good afternoon.  What can I help you find?  Bo:  I’m looking for a suit for work.    Sales clerk:  I’m sure we have something for you.  Are you looking for a traditional or contemporary suit?  Bo:  I’m not sure.  I’d like to try on some different ones.  Sales clerk:  That’s no problem.  Let me show you a few over here.  This is a two-button pinstripe suit that’s made of 100% wool and has a flat front.  What do you think?  Bo:  It looks nice.  How about this one?  Sales clerk:  Oh, this is a very fine suit.  As you can see, it’s double-breasted and is fully lined.  The pants are pleated.  Would you like to try it on?  Bo:  Sure.    Sales clerk:  Just follow me to the dressing rooms in the back.  Here you are.  My name is Caroline.  Just let me know if you need anything. # A Problem with a Restaurant Check

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 302: A Problem with a Restaurant Check.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 302.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at the Learning Guide for this episode.  Each episode has its own 8 to 10 page Learning Guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this podcast episode, as well as other things to help you in learning English.  This episode is called “A Problem with a Restaurant Check,” or a restaurant “bill” (the little piece of paper that tells you how much money you have to pay).  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  I waved my hand to get the waiter’s attention.  Waiter:  Yes?  Leslie:  The check, please.  Waiter:  Would you like any dessert, or some tea or coffee?  Leslie:  No, just the check.  Thanks.  Waiter:  Here you are.  I’ll ring that up for you when you’re ready.  Leslie:  Thank you.  Oh, there seems to be a mistake on our bill.  We didn’t order this appetizer.  Waiter:  Let me check this and I’ll be right back...Here you are.  I’ve adjusted the check.  I took off the appetizer.    Leslie:  Thanks, but there still seems to be a problem.  We had a two-for-one coupon, but we’ve been charged for both meals. # A Traditional Wedding

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 303: A Traditional Wedding.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 303.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store; it has some additional premium courses in daily conversational English and business English.  You can also take a look at our “English Through Stories” mystery, Deadly Letters.  This episode is about a traditional wedding that you would find in the United States.  Let’s get started.  > I arrived at my friend Karin’s wedding a little late and the ceremony had already begun.  I’ve been to a lot of civil ceremonies, but it had been a while since I had attended a religious one.  They had asked a minister to officiate.  When I arrived, Karin and her fiancé, Jan, were standing in front of the church.  Minister:  We are gathered here today to join Jan and Karin in holy matrimony.  If there is anyone here who knows of a reason why these two should not be joined in marriage, speak now or forever hold your peace.  Fortunately, no one said anything.    Minister:  Jan and Karin, please face each other and join hands.  Minister:  [To Jan]  Do you, Jan Casanova, take Karin Valentine, to be your lawfully wedded wife, to have and to hold, to love and to cherish, for better and for worse, for richer and for poorer, in sickness and in health, ‘till death do you part.  Jan said, “I do,” and the minister asked Karin the same question, and she said, “I do,” as well. # A Potential Partnership Meeting

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 304: A Potential Partnership Meeting.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 304.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, a comprehension check, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “A Potential (or possible) Partnership Meeting.”  It’s a dialogue between Flavio and Marcia about two companies that may try to work with each other.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Flavio:  Thanks for meeting with me.  Marcia:  It’s my pleasure.  We’re eager to hear your ideas about our companies doing business together in the future.  Flavio:  Well, I wanted us to meet because I think our two companies can create great synergy.    Marcia:  I agree.  What do you have in mind?  Flavio:  We seem to have core capabilities that complement each other, and I want to see how we can create a partnership that would be to our mutual benefit.  Marcia:  Yes, that’s why I’m here.  I think we’re thinking along the same lines.  Flavio:  Good.  I’m glad to hear that.  If we can pull off a partnership, we could really dominate the market.  Marcia:  Yes, I think that’s true, too, but let’s get beyond the preliminaries.  What kind of business model do you have in mind? # Describing People¡¦s Body Types

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 305: Describing People’s Body Types.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 305.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you learn English even faster.  You get all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional cultural notes, additional explanations of vocabulary not on the audio part of this podcast, as well as a complete transcript of this episode.  You can also visit our ESL Podcast Store, where we have some premium courses on business and daily-life English that we think you’ll be interested in.  This episode is called “Describing People’s Body Types,” describing their physical characteristics – what their body is like.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Remi:  We need to get these costumes sorted out.  I’m not sure we have ones that will fit each person in this play.  Bryan:  Let’s see.  We need a shirt for Hector.  He’s broad-shouldered, so this one would be too small.  Any luck finding one over there?  Remi:  No, but I think I found a dress for Lee Ann.  She’s petite and thin, and I hadn’t been able to find anything that would fit someone that slender.  All of the other dresses are for women with either pear-shaped or hourglass figures.  Bryan:  Okay, at least that’s some progress.  What about Malcolm?  Unlike his brother who is tall and skinny, he’s big and fat.  How are we going to find one to fit him?  Remi:  He’s not fat!  He’s stocky.  He is really muscular and not at all flabby.  Oh, here’s a pair of pants that would fit Pierre.  These are perfect, since he’s not long-legged like all of the other men.    Bryan:  We’re actually doing pretty well, I think.  Remi:  We just need a costume for you. # Giving First Aid

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 306: Giving First Aid.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 306.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Giving First Aid.”  It’s a conversation between two people talking about common injuries – things that you would need to give medical help for; we call that “first aid.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jeng:  What did you do this summer?  Cynthia:  I worked at a summer camp as a nurse’s aide.  I thought we would be giving simple first aid, but you wouldn’t believe the kinds of injuries the kids came in with.  Jeng:  You mean like poison ivy, bee stings, bug bites, and scraped knees?  Cynthia:  Yeah, we had those, but we also had some pretty serious cases.  For instance, the second day of the camp, one of the boys who didn’t know how to swim fell into the lake.  He must have hit his head because he was unconscious when they brought him in.  We couldn’t find his pulse and the nurse did CPR.  Luckily, we got him breathing again right away, but that little boy had a concussion.    Jeng:  Wow!  You’re kidding.  That’s serious.  Cynthia:  That wasn’t all.  It’s true that most of the kids came in with superficial scrapes, but some of them had some major wounds.  We had to stop the bleeding and bandage them up.  We had one girl who needed 12 stitches after she fell out of a tree. # Cable and Satellite TV

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 307: Cable and Satellite TV.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 307.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Good morning, good afternoon, or good evening, depending on when you are listening to us.  Remember to visit our website – yes, we do have a website – at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our premium courses; these are special business and personal English courses that you might be interested in, in addition to our regular Learning Guide membership that we offer.  This episode is called “Cable and Satellite Television (or TV).”  It’s a dialogue between two people talking about the differences between these two ways of getting television service.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Marion:  I’m trying to decide whether to get cable or satellite TV.  Which one do you have at your apartment?  Cesar:  I have satellite, but I used to have cable.  Marion:  What’s the difference?  Cesar:  Not a lot.  With satellite, you have to have a satellite dish installed on the roof and you don’t with cable.  Otherwise, you get similar options.  You can get basic channels and choose from a lot of different premium channels.  I have a package that includes the basic channels and some premium movie channels, and I also have a sports package so I can watch all of the soccer matches I want.  Marion:  How much is the monthly fee?  Cesar:  I think I pay $59.99 a month, excluding the taxes and fees, but the basic service is probably cheaper.  When I had cable, I had to pay a deposit for the cable box, but with satellite, I had to buy the dish outright, but it wasn’t too expensive. # Formatting a Document

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 308: Formatting a Document.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 308.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Be sure to visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Formatting a Document.”  It’s about making a document on your computer with something like Microsoft Word.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Franz:  I’ve just switched over to this program and I can’t figure out how to format my document.  Can you help me?  Helen:  I can try.  Let’s take a look.  What do you want to do?  Franz:  I want to change the margins so I can fit more on a page.  I don’t know how to change the default settings.  I also want to put this section on a separate page.  Helen:  Okay, you can adjust the margins by moving this up and down, and from side to side.  If you want this section on a separate page, just add a page break.    Franz:  Oh, I see.  What if I want to add a header or a footer?  Helen:  You go to this pull-down menu and select the header and footer option.  Then, you can type in the text you want.  If you want to add a page number, just insert one by selecting it from this menu.  Franz:  That seems easy.  What if I want to change the font?  Helen:  You can change the font style or size by selecting the text and then making the change on the toolbar.  See? # Describing Distances and Giving Directions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 309: Describing Distances and Giving Directions.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 309.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and go to our ESL Podcast Store where you can find several premium courses – additional courses on daily English and business English topics.  This episode is called “Describing Distances and Giving Directions.”  It’s going to be a dialogue between Daniella and someone who works at a hotel – a hotel clerk – about how to get to – how to arrive at – different places in the city.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Daniella:  Could you tell where I can find a drugstore?    Hotel clerk:  Sure.  There’s one up the street near the corner of Selma and Main.  If you get to Abreu Avenue, you’ve gone too far.  It’s set back from the street so it’s a little hard to find.  Daniella:  Oh, that’s okay.  I’ll keep an eye out for it.  Hotel clerk:  You know, I just remembered that there’s a bigger and better drugstore around the block.  It’s no more than a three-minute walk.  Go out the main doors of the hotel, hang a left, go straight for about a quarter of a mile, and then make another left at the first street.  Daniella:  Okay.  I think I’ve got that.  Thanks.  Hotel clerk:  Now, if you want a drugstore with a pharmacy, you’ll need to walk a little farther.  Go out these doors, walk roughly three blocks until you get to a dead end, turn right, cross the street, and you’ll see a bank.  It’s kitty-corner from the bank.  You should be able to walk there in five minutes, give or take.     Daniella:  Thanks.  Thanks a lot.  I think I’m all set.  See you later. # Shopping for Furniture

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 310: Shopping for Furniture.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 310.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful, warm Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Shopping for Furniture.”  It’s a dialogue between two people who just got married, or are going to get married, and are looking for things for their new house or apartment.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Tobias:  I really don’t understand why we need new furniture.  After we’re married, we’ll just take the things from each of our two apartments and that should do the trick.  Renee:  We each have some things we can keep and use, but it would be nice to have pieces that match.  Right now, we have six dining chairs, each in a different style, and none of them are in the same style as the dining table your uncle is giving us as a wedding present.    Tobias:  Yeah, that’s true.  At least, we won’t have to shop for bedroom furniture.  We’re lucky that your parents are giving us some hand-me-down things, including a dresser, two nightstands, a headboard, and a wardrobe.  All we need is a bed.  Renee:  Yeah, we got lucky when they decided to get new furniture and to give us their old pieces.  That just leaves the living room.    Tobias:  But we already have a couch and a love seat.  Renee:  That’s true, but we still need a coffee table, two side tables, and at least two table lamps and a floor lamp. # A Mid-life Crisis

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 311: A Mid-life Crisis.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 311.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has some exciting new business and personal English courses for you.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “A Mid-life Crisis.”  It’s a dialogue between a wife and a friend talking about the woman’s husband and how he is going through something we call a “mid-life crisis.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Bella:  I think my husband is going through a mid-life crisis.    Russell:  What makes you think that?  Bella:  He just traded in his car for a very expensive sports car, and he’s filling the house with gym equipment.  Russell:  Uh oh, that’s a bad sign.  Do you know what may have triggered this?  Bella:  I’m not sure, but he was passed over for a promotion at work a couple of months ago, and his new boss is 15 years younger than he is.    Russell:  That would do it.    Bella:  What really worries me is that he’s been talking about quitting his job altogether and becoming a full-time writer.  He always wanted to become a successful writer.  Russell:  That’s sounds familiar.  When my brother went through a mid-life crisis, he spent a lot of time reflecting on his life and regretting giving up music to get a full-time job.  He saw himself as being washed up and he was fed up with everything. # Different Work Styles

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 312: Different Work Styles.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 312.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  If you go to our website at eslpod.com, you can download a Learning Guide to this episode to improve your English even more.  The Learning Guide contains all the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions of words we use on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  We also have some other new, exciting parts of the website, so take a look at that if you haven’t visited recently.  Our topic today is “Different Work Styles.”  We’ll go over some vocabulary you can use to describe people’s work habits and the sorts of things that they do at work in terms of the way (or the style or manner) in which they work.  Let’s get started.  > Before I started my new job, I didn’t know that I would be working so closely with another employee of the company.  I was used to a lot of autonomy in my last job, and I have always been self-directed.  I didn’t need close supervision and the boss never had to worry about me slacking off.  To tell the truth, I was a little apprehensive about working in a team after having had so much independence.  To my surprise, though, I liked the collaborative environment and I think I actually do better work because of it.    Of the two of us, Delilah is the creative one.  While I’m a little adverse to risk, Delilah is always challenging the status quo.  She often has good ideas, and because I’m pretty resourceful, we often find a way to put those ideas to work.  Delilah has great follow-through, too, and I never need to worry that things will fall through the cracks.    I think the key to our success in working together is that neither one of us tries to exercise authority over the other.  We respect each other’s abilities and we know when to take charge and when to back off.  If you had told me a year ago that I would be working in a team environment and enjoying it, I would have told you # A Suspicious Neighbor

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 313: A Suspicious Neighbor.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 313.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “A Suspicious Neighbor.”  It’s a dialogue between two people talking about one their neighbors – their new neighbors, someone who recently moved close to them – and whether this person is, perhaps, involved in something they should not be.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Patricia:  What do you think of our new neighbor?  Ray:  I don’t know.  I haven’t met him yet.  Patricia:  Me neither, but I think he’s a shady character.  Ray:  Why do you think that?  Patricia:  Well, when he was moving in, I tried to shoot the breeze with him and he was shifty.  When I asked him what line of work he was in, he was very evasive.  Ray:  Maybe he just didn’t want to talk to a busybody when he was busy moving boxes.  Have you thought of that?  Patricia:  I wasn’t being a busybody.  I was just being neighborly.  When I offered to help him, he practically kicked me out of his apartment.  Ray:  Okay, you must be right.  He’s probably a serial killer.  Patricia:  I wouldn’t put it past him.     Ray:  Come on.  My guess is that he just wants some peace and quiet. # Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 314: Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 314.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com; there you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional daily English and business courses you may be interested in.  This episode is called “Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player.”  It’s a conversation between a man who works at a store and a woman who’s looking to buy (who’s interested in buying) an MP3 player.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Clerk:  Can I help you?  Sandy:  I’m looking for an MP3 player, but I don’t know a lot about them.  Clerk:  We have a large selection, as you can see.  Sandy:  Wow, I really don’t know where to begin.    Clerk:  What do you want to be able to do?  Sandy:  I just want something small and portable that I can use to listen to music that I rip from CDs.  I also want to be able to download songs off the Internet.    Clerk:  Most of the players you see here can do that.  One thing you have to watch out for is that some music websites are proprietary.  That means that you can only listen using certain types of players.    Sandy:  That’s what I’m worried about.    Clerk:  Well, this one plays music in a lot of different file formats and is compatible with most of the major music download sites, both proprietary and # Going to the Park

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 315: Going to the Park.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 315.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and take a look at some of the new features on our website.  If you haven’t visited it recently, we have some new, exciting things on the website.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  Our episode is called “Going to the Park.”  It’s a dialogue between a man and a woman who meet in the park.  What will happen next?  Let’s find out.  [start of dialogue]  I arrived at the park a little early for our neighborhood baseball game and I needed to kill some time.  I decided to take a walk along one of the trails so I could look at the scenery.  Suddenly, I came across a woman sitting under a tree.   Octavi:  What a beautiful day to be at the park!  Irene:  Oh, hi.  Yes, it’s a nice day, isn’t it?  Octavi:  You look comfortable sitting on the grass in the shade reading.    Irene:  It’s a quiet spot away from the playground.    Octavi:  Do you come here often?  Irene:  Not too often.  I come here every so often on the weekends.    Octavi:  This is a great spot for a picnic.  I saw a lot of people on the other side near the fountain, but this is much more peaceful.    Irene:  Yeah, that’s why I like it here.  Were you looking for the baseball field?  It’s on the other side of the park. # Business Emails and Abbreviations

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 316: Business Emails and Abbreviations.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 316.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in the beautiful city of Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides are 8 to 10 page PDF guides that will give you a complete transcript of everything we say on this podcast.  You will also receive all of the most important vocabulary words, with definitions and new samples sentences.  We also have additional explanations of vocabulary that we don’t talk about on the podcast, comprehension questions, and a cultural note.  This episode is called, “Business Emails and Abbreviations.”  Let’s get started.  [start of example]  Dear Sam,  I am writing to follow up on our phone conversation re: the upcoming meeting.  We’ve made good headway in our planning, having settled many of the arrangements, e.g., the date, time, and venue.  However, we still need to decide on the agenda, i.e., who will speak, in what order, and for what length of time.  Fortunately, we have free rein to set up the meeting as we see fit, so it’s just a matter of hammering out the details before we can invite the participants, book the meeting room, etc.  I suggest that we call a second meeting and invite some of the people who will be involved in the meeting: Adam, Lin, Toshi, Cecelia, et al.  With everyone there, we should be able to come to a decision about the remaining issues.  If this is in line with your thinking, I’ll send out an email ASAP.    Let me know what you think.  Luis  P.S.  We also need to start planning the annual meeting, but we can wait until this one is wrapped up before we start on that. # Setting the Table

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 317: Setting the Table.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 317.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and take a look at our premium courses.  We have additional business and daily English courses available in our ESL Podcast Store.  You also will want to take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where we have additional information and help in learning English.  And of course, you should download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “Setting the Table.”  It’s a dialogue about what you put on a table – a dinner table – so you can eat.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  William:  This is a very special dinner.  It’s not everyday that I have my bosses over for dinner.  It has to be perfect.  Martha:  I know.  Why do you think I took out our best china?  Instead of worrying, why don’t you help me set the table?    William:  Right.  I should make myself useful.  Is this the best tablecloth we have?  Martha:  Yes, it is.  It’s very fine linen.  William:  Oh, right, right.  Okay, we need six table settings.  That means we need dinner plates, salad plates, bread plates, coffee cups, and saucers.  Where are the saucers?  Martha:  All of the dinnerware is over there.  Be careful!  William:  I know, I know.  Where’s the silverware?  We’re missing the silverware!  Martha:  No, we’re not.  All of the silverware is in this drawer.  Put the dinner and salad forks on the left and the dessert fork above the plate, like this.  The tines should be facing up.  The knife and spoon go on the right. # Writing a Love Song

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 318: Writing a Love Song.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 318.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Be sure to visit our website at eslpod.com, and download the Learning Guide for this episode.  It will help you learn English even faster by giving you all of the vocabulary words, definitions, new samples sentences using the expressions we talk about on this episode, comprehension questions, cultural notes, additional vocabulary definitions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  Our episode is called “Writing a Love Song.”  It’s a dialogue between Isaac and Brittany, and, well, you’ll see, it’s about someone writing a song of love.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Isaac:  Can you keep it down in there?  I’m trying to write a song.  Brittany:  You are?  What kind of song?  Isaac:  It’s none of your business.  Brittany:  Come on.  Tell me.    Isaac:  It’s for Melanie.    Brittany:  Oh, it’s a love song.  That’s so romantic.  Are you going to serenade her?  Isaac:  Maybe.  Now leave me alone so I can write.  Brittany:  Don’t kick me out.  Maybe I can help.  Let me hear what you have so far.    Isaac:  Oh, all right.  Here are the lyrics.  There’re pretty rough.  Can you think of something that rhymes with flower? # Being Under Stress

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 319: Being Under Stress.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 319.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  We have some new features on our website, new courses in our ESL Podcast Store, and a new blog that you can follow every day to learn even more English.  In this episode, we’re going to have a dialogue between two people, one of whom is having problems because he is under stress.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Wei:  What’s wrong?  You look like you’re in pain.  Jason:  My stomach is acting up again.  Wei:  It’s all of this stress.  I don’t know how anyone can cope with the pressures you’re under.  Jason:  It’s nothing.  I’ll just take a pill for my stomach.  Wei:  That won’t solve the problem.  Look at you.  You look worn out.  Are you losing sleep, too?  Jason:  I have had trouble sleeping.  Wei:  It’s no wonder.  At home, you have the demands of raising two kids on your own, and at work, you’re in a dog-eat-dog environment everyday.  Jason:  I have to admit that my nerves are shot, but what can I do?    Wei:  Maybe we can work something out.  To start, how about if I watch your kids for a few hours this weekend so you can get some rest?  Jason:  I couldn’t ask you to do that.  You have to take care of your own kids. # Micromanaging the Staff

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 320: Micromanaging the Staff.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 320.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our new ESL Podcast Blog, where you can get the latest news from ESL Podcast on the things we’re doing, as well as comments and ideas from Lucy and me.  While you’re on our homepage, you can also download a Learning Guide to this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not talked about on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Micromanaging the Staff.”  It’s a dialogue between Barry and Jane about how you should manage, or how you should supervise other people.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Barry:  Where are you going?  Jane:  I’m checking up on Rudy.  I gave him a task an hour ago and I want to make sure he’s doing it right.  Barry:  You’re not micromanaging again, are you?    Jane:  Of course not.  I’m only going to observe his work and make sure that he’s following the detailed instructions I gave him.  Barry:  That sounds like micromanaging.  If you’re always looking over their shoulders, how are you ever going to develop trust with your employees?  Jane:  My employees will earn my trust by being meticulous with their work.  Good employees don’t mind me monitoring their progress.    Barry:  That may be true, but I heard Rudy and Jena talking and they said they’re feeling a little resentful that you don’t have more faith in their ability.  They feel like you’re treating them as though they’re incompetent. # Buying a Jacket or Coat

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 321: Buying a Jacket or Coat.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 321.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can take a look at our premium courses, courses on business and daily English to help you learn English even faster.  In this episode we’re going to go shopping.  We’re going to buy a jacket or a coat, and discuss the vocabulary related to those items.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Michael:  Mom, I don’t need a new coat.  I like my old trench coat.  It’s comfortable, and I can use it as a raincoat and an overcoat.  So what do I need a new coat for?  Lisa:  If you’re going to visit your aunt in Maine, you’ll need something warmer than a trench coat.  This parka is nice.  Michael:  I’m not wearing a parka.  If I’m not warm enough, I’ll wear my denim jacket under my trench coat.    Lisa:  That’s ridiculous.  You can’t wear a jacket and a coat each time you go outside.  Look, this down coat will keep you nice and warm.  It has a high collar, a hood, and thick cuffs, and it’s very roomy so you’ll be very comfortable in it.  Michael:  It’s too long.  I don’t need a knee-length coat.    Lisa:  Yes, you do.  You’ve never been in really cold weather and when you get there, you’ll be thankful to have something so warm.  Now, we also need to buy you a blazer.    Michael:  A blazer?  What for?   Lisa:  Your aunt is probably going to take you to some nice places and I don’t want you to look like a bum.  See?  This one is nice and fitted. # Picking up a Rental Car

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 322: Picking up a Rental Car.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 322.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  There you can find all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional sample sentences, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Picking up a Rental Car.”  When you are traveling and you need a car, you can rent one.  You “pick it up” means you get it.  In this case, we’re going to hear a conversation between Ralph and someone who works for the rental car company, and we’ll hear all the common expressions and phrases you use when you are picking up a car.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Ralph:  I have a reservation for a car.  Clerk:  What is the last name on the reservation?  Ralph:  It’s Furcal.  Clerk:  Just one moment.  I have a reservation for Ralph Furcal, picking up today and returning on the 19th.    Ralph:  Yes, that’s right.  I reserved an economy car.  Clerk:  We do have an economy car reserved for you, but for $3.00 more per day, you can upgrade to a mid-sized car.  And, for only $5.00 more per day, you can upgrade to a convertible.  Would you like to take advantage of either of these offers?  Ralph:  No, thanks.  I’ll stick to the economy car.  Clerk:  That’s fine.  If you’ll just sign here and initial here, here, and here, please.  Would you like to purchase insurance for the car? # Rooms in a House

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 323: Rooms in a House.  This is ESL Podcast episode three-two-three (323).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some business and daily English courses we think you’ll enjoy.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where you can get news and additional English by going to our website each day.  This episode is called “Rooms in a House.”  It is, of course, going to talk about the different parts of the house and what is in the different parts of the house, some useful daily vocabulary.  Let’s get started.  > I don’t like cats.  That’s not really true.  I like cats, but they don’t like me.    Last week, my friend Sara asked me to babysit her cat for two days while she was out of town.  Normally, I would have said no, but she was in a jam, so I said okay.  As I said, cats don’t like me.  When I got home from work, I couldn’t find her.  I was sure she was hiding from me.  I looked all over the house.    I started with the bedrooms, looking in the closets and under the bed.  I looked in the bathroom and even behind the shower curtain.  I went downstairs and searched the basement.  No cat.  Next, I looked all over the living room, checking under the couch and behind the TV.  I also looked in the pantry and then the laundry room, thinking that the cat must be hiding behind the washer or dryer.  Still, no cat.  Finally, I looked in the kitchen.  There was the cat.  She was sitting on the counter.  Somehow she had managed to open a box of cookies and there she sat eating them all.  When the cat saw me, she started mewing.  I don’t speak the language of cats, but I could have sworn that she was asking me for some milk!
 # Corporate Sponsorship

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 324: Corporate Sponsorship.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 324.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guides contain all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Corporate Sponsorship,” about when a company decides to give money to help an organization.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Travis:  I don’t know how we’re going to keep our free sports program going without more funding.  As it is, we’re strapped and I don’t know how we’re going to continue.  Megumi:  I know you’ve been resistant in the past, but what about corporate sponsorship?  I’m sure we can find some businesses that want to support us.  Travis:  I know you’re trying to help, but I’m not willing to sell out.    Megumi:  It’s not selling out to have sponsors.  Some businesses really want to keep public programs like ours free and available to the public.  Being a benefactor is their way of helping us do that.  In exchange, those companies get more exposure and enhance their public image.  It’s a win-win for everyone.  Travis:  Don’t get me wrong.  I’m not trying to get on a high horse about sponsorship, but I don’t want product placement, business signage, and outright advertising at our games.  It sends the wrong message to the kids in the program.    Megumi:  I don’t think it’s an all-or-nothing idea.  You can limit the kinds of sponsorship you accept.  Just don’t throw out the baby with the bath water.  You know, it may be our only option. # Describing People¡¦s Moods

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 325: Describing People’s Moods.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 325.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our premium courses.  We have additional special courses in business and daily English we think you’ll be interested in.  You can also download the individual Learning Guide, an 8 to 10 page guide to this episode, on our website.    This episode is called “Describing People’s Moods,” the way people act or behave toward one another.  It’s a dialogue between Brett and Molly talking about different people’s moods.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Brett:  Do you know what kind of mood Mom is in?  Molly:  Not really.  Why?  Brett:  I really need a raise in my allowance and I’m waiting for the right time to ask.  She’ll be more likely to say “yes” if she’s not feeling too grouchy.  Molly:  I wouldn’t count on this being a good time.  She looked a little upset after getting off the phone with Aunt Teri.    Brett:  Why?  Molly:  Aunt Teri has been down in the dumps since Cousin Frank decided to take a job in Cambodia.  He’s on cloud nine about this new job, but Aunt Teri is anxious about him moving so far away.  Brett:  I see.  Well, I’ve got to think of some way to cheer her up.  It’s a lost cause if I ask her while she’s angry, on edge, or depressed.  Molly:  You know that Mom is always happy to hear good news about school.  Do you have anything new to report? # Finding the Right Wine

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 326: Finding the Right Wine.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 326.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and while you’re there download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional premium courses for business and daily English.  This episode is called “Finding the Right Wine.”  Let’s get drinking!  [start of dialogue]  Antonio:  Why are we stopping here?  Melanie:  We can’t go to the dinner party empty-handed.  We need to bring a bottle of wine.  Antonio:  I don’t know anything about wines.  You’ll need to pick a bottle.  Melanie:  I don’t know much about wines, either.  I just know we need a good table wine.  Do you think we should get a bottle of white, red, or rosé?  Antonio:  I don’t know.  Melanie:  The label on this one says that it’s fruity and not too tart.  This other one says that it’s full-bodied, but I think we want a light-bodied one, right?  Antonio:  I have no idea.    Melanie:  The label on this one says that it’s from a California vineyard.  Is that good or bad?    Antonio:  I don’t know.  Stop asking me.  Here’s a corkscrew.  Why don’t you take out the cork and we’ll have a taste? # Getting Caught in the Rain

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 327: Getting Caught in the Rain.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-two-seven (327).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at wwwwww.eslpod.com – actually, there are just three “Ws.”  You can download a Learning Guide from our website, it will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our special courses on business and daily English, which we think you’ll like as well.  This episode is called “Getting Caught in the Rain.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Margo:  Oh geez, you’re drenched!  It wasn’t supposed to rain today.  Ali:  I know.  I looked at the weather report last night and it was supposed to be a nice day.  That’s the last time I trust those weathercasters!  I hate getting caught in the rain.  I’m soaking wet.  Margo:  When I felt a raindrop on my head this morning, I should have known that we were in for a big rainstorm.  Right then, I should have gone back into my house to get an umbrella, but as usual, I was running late.  Ali:  I can’t believe I have to go out on sales calls today.  I’m not looking forward to getting back in my car when it’s raining cats and dogs out there.  Margo:  Somebody in this office must have an umbrella you can borrow for the day.  I’ll go see.    Ali:  Thanks.  It looks like it’s only drizzling now.  Maybe it’s letting up.  Margo:  Don’t count on it.  It’ll be pouring again in a minute.  Let me see if I can round up an umbrella and maybe even a raincoat.  Ali:  Thanks.  I’ll be in the bathroom wringing out my clothes.  What a miserable day! # Dishonesty at Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 328: Dishonesty at Work.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 328.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Each episode of ESL Podcast comes with a 8 to 10 page Learning Guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Dishonesty at Work.”  “Dishonesty” is someone who is not honest – who lies at work.  We’ll listen to a dialogue between Shane and Amina over some problems with one of the employees at work.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Amina:  Have you heard the latest news?  Shane:  No, what is it?  Amina:  Charlie was fired last Friday after the company found out that he had been cooking the books for over six months and had embezzled more than $50,000.  Shane:  Charlie?  I don’t believe it!  He is the most upstanding person I know.  I can imagine him stretching the truth now and then, but he’s the last person I would think of as being truly dishonest.  I would never think to question his integrity.    Amina:  It wasn’t greed that made him do it.  His wife has been ill and he couldn’t pay the medical bills.  I think he had the best of intentions in trying to get his wife the healthcare she needed, but it was only a matter of time before he got caught, no matter how well he covered his tracks.  Shane:  Well, I know he’s a bad liar and he’s not known to make mistakes, so I’m not surprised that someone caught on pretty quickly when there were # Being Persuasive

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 329: Being Persuasive.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 329.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  How are you today?  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  While you’re there, you can take a look at our new ESL Podcast Blog, you can take a look at our special courses on business and daily English in our ESL Podcast store, and you can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Being Persuasive.”  “To be persuasive” means to try to convince someone that what you are saying is true or right, or to do something.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sylvia:  How would you like to take my sister, Donna, to the movies this weekend?  You’d be doing me a favor.  Joon:  Why?  What’s wrong with her?    Sylvia:  Nothing is wrong with her!  She just broke up with her boyfriend of four years and she’s down in the dumps.  She’s shy, so I thought I’d try to set her up on a date.    Joon:  Off the top of my head, I can think of a dozen things I’d rather do than to take out anyone’s little sister, including yours, no offense.      Sylvia:  You don’t know what you’re missing.  She may be shy, but she’s very pretty and witty.  If you met her, you wouldn’t need me to persuade you.    Joon:  I don’t know.  I’m not convinced.  Whenever someone sets me up on a blind date, they always tell me how great the woman is.  She never lives up to the hype.    Sylvia:  I’m not going to twist your arm, but if you’re on the fence, I have two free movie tickets to that new movie you want to see, just to sweeten the pot. # Traveling by Bus

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 330: Traveling by Bus.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 330.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Traveling by Bus.”  It’s a dialogue between Samantha and an employee of the bus company; they’re talking about different kinds of bus travel.  We’ll go over some vocabulary in this dialogue that you would need if you were going to travel by bus in English.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  (telephone ring)  Samantha:  Good morning.  I had a few questions about buying a bus ticket.  Do I need to buy one in advance?    Agent:  You can, but it’s not necessary.  You just need to arrive at the terminal at least an hour before the scheduled departure time to buy your ticket.  Boarding begins about 15 to 30 minutes before departure.  Samantha:  Can I reserve a seat?  Agent:  No, seating is on a first-come, first-serve basis.  I recommend getting there early during peak times, but getting a good seat isn’t usually a problem with the night service buses.  Samantha:  I want to go from Charlestown to Myrtle Beach.  Do you know how many stops the bus will be making?  Agent:  I think that bus makes six stops to pick up passengers en route, but you can check the schedule to be sure.  That doesn’t include rest stops and meal # Washing Clothes

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 331: Washing Clothes.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 331.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Download a Learning Guide, while you’re there, for this episode.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has additional premium courses in business and daily English that we think you’ll be interested in, and read our new ESL Podcast Blog.  This episode is about something everyone has to do, or have done for them, and that is washing your clothes.  It’s a dialogue between Mina and Arlo about using a washing machine.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Mina:  What happened here?  Is the washing machine not working?  Arlo:  What do you mean?    Mina:  Why are all of your white T-shirts now pink?  Arlo:  That just happens.  Sometimes they turn pink, gray, or another color, depending on which clothes I put in a load.  Mina:  Didn’t anyone teach you how to do laundry?  You’re supposed to separate your whites from your colors and wash them separately.  Arlo:  It doesn’t really matter.  I don’t mind if they get dyed a different color.  As long as they get clean and the stains come out, I don’t really care what color they are.  Mina:  I have some bleach that may be able to get your T-shirts white again.  I better try before you put them in the dryer.    Arlo:  Don’t bother.  It really doesn’t matter to me.  I’m almost done here.  I’m just waiting for one more load to finish. # Profit and Loss

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 332: Profit and Loss.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 332.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the audio episode, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is a dialogue between Dolores and Anton.  They’re talking about the money that their company makes or doesn’t make.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Dolores:  Manuel in accounting is supposed to help me with this report, but he called in sick today!  I can’t believe my luck.  He’s supposed to be training me in and he’s left me holding the bag.  Anton:  Let me see if I can help.    Dolores:  I’m supposed to use the information from this profit and loss statement to make some projections about the company’s future performance for our report, but I’m not sure what I’m doing.  I need to plug in some numbers here, but I can’t make heads or tails of this.    Anton:  Well, if you look at the top of the statement, you’ll see the top line, which shows the revenue the company brought in in the third quarter of this year.  Is that what you need?  Dolores:  Yes, I think so, but I also need to know our net income.  Anton:  Here is the bottom line.  That takes into account all of the revenue and expenses during the third quarter.    Dolores:  That’s great, but I also need to know the gross profits and operating expenses. # Quitting Smoking

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 333: Quitting Smoking.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-three-three (333).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  How are you today?  In this episode we’re going to finally quit smoking – quit smoking cigarettes, that is.  If you want to find out more about the vocabulary and the ideas we talk about in this episode, go to our website at eslpod.com and download the 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode.  You can also take a look at our new ESL Podcast Blog, and our additional premium courses in the ESL Podcast Store.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Vera:  Hi, I thought you might be out here.  Geez, it’s really cold!    Paul:  I know, but I really needed a smoke break after that long meeting.  Can I bum one off you?  I left my pack of cigarettes on my desk.  Vera:  Sure.  Here’s my lighter.  What do you think about the new incentives the company is offering to employees to quit?  Have you thought about it?    Paul:  Yeah, but I’ve smoked for 20 years.  I tried going cold turkey once, but it didn’t work.  I’m doomed to a lifetime of ashtrays and stained fingers.  Vera:  I’ve been butting heads with my boyfriend for years.  He wants me to quit, but I say, to each his own.    Paul:  The incentives are pretty good, though, I have to admit: a cash bonus and more money towards our health plans.    Vera:  Yeah, I could use the cash.  Have you tried one of those nicotine patches?    Paul:  No, I haven’t.    Vera:  Well...I’ll try it if you will.  Paul:  Do you think it would work?  I think I’m a lost cause. # Hiding from the Police

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 334: Hiding from the Police.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 334.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can find there the Learning Guide for this episode, a 10-page guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  So, if you want to improve your English even faster, download the Learning Guide after you listen to this episode, or before you listen to this episode.  Of course, it’s a little late now since you’ve already started listening to this episode, but you get the idea!  Our episode is called “Hiding from the Police.”  To hide from the police is, of course, something you would do if you, perhaps, have done something wrong.  The vocabulary we’re going to talk about is the sort of vocabulary you might read in the newspaper about some crime that has happened.  Let’s get started.  > I read an article in the newspaper this morning about a man who had been on the lam for 12 years.  He was wanted by the police because they believed he had committed a murder.  But before the man could go to trial, he bolted and left the country.  He has been on the “Most Wanted” list in this state ever since.  How did he get away?  The police had confiscated his passport, but he wore a disguise and became a stowaway on a ship heading for China.  While on the boat, he kept out of sight and was holed up in the cargo section of the ship the entire time.  No one even had an inkling that he was on the ship!  When the ship arrived in China, he got off and immediately assumed a new identity.  At first, he didn’t have any identification and he had to go underground, but eventually, he made enough money to buy a passport on the black market.    How did he get caught?  He tried to reenter the United States and the security officers at the airport saw that his passport was forged.  He was nabbed right away and he’ll be going to trial soon.  That is, unless he escapes!
 # Getting a Car Serviced

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 335: Getting a Car Serviced.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 335.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Visit our website at eslpod.com; download a Learning Guide for this episode. You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog an d our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in business and daily English that you may be interested in.

This episode is a dialogue between Sophia and her m echanic; she’s getting her car serviced.  We’ll find out with that means, and learn some car vocabulary in this episode.  Let’s get started.

[start of dialogue]

Sophia:  Is my car ready?

Mechanic:  I’m finished with your oil change and I replaced the oil filter.  I’ve also replaced the wiper blades in your windshield wipers .  But I’ve had a good look under your hood, and your car needs a lot of work.

Sophia:  Really?

Mechanic:  Yes, you have some serious problems.  I bet your engine is running really rough.  Your transmission is leaking, your s hocks need to be replaced, and you need new brake pads.  Your battery is very low and it should be replaced, too.

Sophia:  I can’t believe it.

Mechanic:  It’s true.  Your tires need to be rotate d, too, and I also suggest getting a wheel alignment.

Sophia:  Well, this is all a big surprise, especial ly since I just bought this used car a couple of months ago.

Mechanic:  You did?  Well, you got ripped off.  Who ever sold you this car is a crook.  Where did you buy it?

Sophia:  I bought it here!  I bought this from the owner of this garage.  He said that it was in tip-top shape!

[end of dialogue]

Our dialogue begins with Sophia saying to her “mech anic,” the person who fixes a car, “Is my car ready?”  The mechanic says, “I’m finished with your oil change and I replaced the oil filter.”  When you have your  car serviced, there’s nothing wrong with the car but you need to do certain thing s to keep your car running smoothly so that you won’t have any problems.  Part  of that is usually having your oil changed.  “Oil” is what you put into the e ngine to help it work properly, so that the parts of the engine move properly – smooth ly.  An “oil change” is when you take out the oil in the engine and you put in n ew oil.  The “oil filter” is a small part of the engine that cleans the oil – takes away  the dirt in the oil or other objects so that the oil can do its job.  So when yo u change your oil, you often change your oil filter.

The mechanic says, “I’ve also replaced the wiper bl ades on your windshield wipers.”  Most cars have two windshield wipers.  your “windshield” is that piece of glass in the front of the car that protects you.   The “windshield wipers” are two long metal and plastic bars – long pieces of metal – that are on the bottom of your window and clean your window – remove the wate r from your window. They go side to side in what we would call a “parti al semi-circle,” that’s how you clean the water from your car.  For example, if it’ s raining, you need your windshield wiper.  A “wiper” comes from the verb “t o wipe” (wipe), which is to dry something with a cloth or some other instrument.  N ow, the windshield wipers have blades in them.  A “blade” (blade) is usually a small rubber or plastic piece that actually touches the window.  You don’t have m etal touching your window, you have this rubber or plastic blade that touches the window and removes the water from it.  The word “blade” has several differ ent meanings in English; take a look at our “What Else Does It Mean” section in this episode’s Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

Well, the mechanic says that he’s “replaced the wip er blades in your windshield wipers.  But I’ve had a good look under your hood, and your car needs a lot of work.”  To say “I’ve had a good look” means I’ve ex amined very closely – I’ve looked at very carefully.  In this case, the mechan ic has looked carefully under the hood.  The “hood” (hood) in American English is  a large, flat piece of metal that covers the front of your car.  If your engine is in the front of your car – in

most cars it is – the “hood” is the metal that cove rs it.  It’s like a door that you lift up in order to get to the engine.  The little door in the back of your car is called the “trunk,” or the “trunk door”; in the front, it’ s called the “hood.”

So, he looked at the engine – he looked under the h ood – and the car, he thinks, need a lot of work.  Of course, whenever you go to a mechanic, many mechanics will try to tell you you need to do more work on your car.  Unfortunately, mechanics don’t have a very good reputation, at lea st in the United States, for telling you the truth all the time.  That’s why it’ s so hard to find a good mechanic – probably harder than finding a good doctor.

The mechanic says, “you have some serious problems.   I bet your engine is running really rough.”  “I bet” means I’m guessing,  or I believe, “your engine (the motor of your car that keeps the car running) is ru nning really rough,” meaning it’s not working very smoothly.  “Your transmission  is leaking, your shocks need to be replaced, and you need new brake pads.”  Thes e are three parts of the car. Your “transmission” is the part of the car that tra nsmits the energy from the car’s engine to the wheels.  You can have either an autom atic transmission or a manual transmission, what we sometimes call a “stic k shift.”  In both cases, the transmission controls the “gears,” small round whee ls that help transfer the power coming from your engine and direct that, if y ou will, to the rest of the car. It controls it – it controls how fast you can go.

The “transmission is leaking.”  “To leak” means to allow a small amount of liquid to escape, usually by accident – you don’t want it to.  You could say, “My roof is leaking” – it rains and there is water coming down through my house into the inside of the house.  The roof – the top of the hou se – is leaking.  Well here, the “transmission is leaking,” meaning there’s transmis sion oil coming out of the car. It should not be, and that’s a problem.

Your “shocks” (shocks) is another word for your “sh ock absorbers.”  This is the part of the car that makes the ride smoother.  Inst ead of having the car go up and down quickly, the shocks help keep the car from going up and down as you are driving down the road and hit a bump, for example.  So, the shock absorbers need to be replaced, according to the mechanic.  the word “shock” actually has several different meanings in English; once again, take a look at the Learning Guide for this episode for more explanations.

The mechanic also says Sophia needs new brake pads.   The “brake pad” is the part of the car that stops the wheels from moving w hen you want to slow down or stop the car.  The “brakes” is the name of the syst em that stops the wheels; the “pads” are the actual parts that go against the whe el to slow it or stop it.

 The mechanic says, “Your battery is very low and sh ould be replaced, too.”  The “battery” is the part of the car that stores electr ical energy.  So, the mechanic is saying that the battery needs to be replaced as wel l.

Sophia says, “I can’t believe it.”  The mechanic sa ys, “It’s true.  Your tires need to be rotated, too.”  The “tire” is the thick rubber p art that goes around the wheel. You have a tire with a car, a bicycle, or some othe r machines.  The “tires need to be rotated,” the mechanic says.  “To rotate your ti res” means to move them in different positions.  You have typically two tires in the front, two tires in the back. To rotate them would mean to put the ones on the fr ont on the back, and some on the back on the front.

The mechanic also suggests Sophia get a wheel align ment.  A “wheel alignment” is when you make a change to the position of a car’ s wheels so that they are all going straight.  If you’re driving a car and you le t go of the steering wheel – you’re not touching the steering wheel – and you no tice your car moves to the left or moves to the right, that could be because you ne ed a wheel alignment, where the mechanic makes sure the car’s wheels are all po inted in the same direction so the car goes straight.

Sophia says, “Well, this is all a big surprise, esp ecially since I just bought this used car a couple of months ago.”  The mechanic say s, “You did?” – you did buy it a few months ago?  He’s obviously surprised.  He  says, “Well, you got ripped off.”  “To get ripped off” means to lose money beca use someone else has stolen it from you or lied about something – someone has c heated you – this is “to get ripped off.”  When someone is dishonest – when some one basically tries to steal your money, that is also another way we can use this expression.

The mechanic says, “Whoever sold this car to you,” or “Whoever sold you this car is a crook.”  A “crook” (crook) is another word  for a thief, a criminal, someone who steals things.  The mechanic asks, “Where did y ou buy it?” and Sophia says, “I bought it here!  I bought this from the owner of  this garage.”  She’s saying that she bought car where the mechanic works.  The place  where a mechanic works is called the “garage.”  We also use that word for the place where you store or park your car at home or at work, but it’s also use d as a word to describe the place where you get your car fixed, a place where there are mechanics.

Sophia says she bought the car “from the owner of t his garage.”  The owner told her “that it was in tip-top shape.”  The expression  “tip- (hyphen) top” means perfect, best, excellent, without any problems.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a normal speed.

[start of dialogue]

Sophia:  Is my car ready?

Mechanic:  I’m finished with your oil change and I replaced the oil filter.  I’ve also replaced the wiper blades in your windshield wipers .  But I’ve had a good look under your hood, and your car needs a lot of work.

Sophia:  Really?

Mechanic:  Yes, you have some serious problems.  I bet your engine is running really rough.  Your transmission is leaking, your s hocks need to be replaced, and you need new brake pads.  Your battery is very low and it should be replaced, too.

Sophia:  I can’t believe it.

Mechanic:  It’s true.  Your tires need to be rotate d, too, and I also suggest getting a wheel alignment.

Sophia:  Well, this is all a big surprise, especial ly since I just bought this used car a couple of months ago.

Mechanic:  You did?  Well, you got ripped off.  Who ever sold you this car is a crook.  Where did you buy it?

Sophia:  I bought it here!  I bought this from the owner of this garage.  He said that it was in tip-top shape!

[end of dialogue]

The script for this episode was written by Dr. Lucy  Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan.  Thanks for listening.  We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan.  This podcast is copy right 2007.

# Going Out of Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 336: Going Out of Business.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 336.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can go to our website at eslpod.com, and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide will give you all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional sample sentences using the key terms from this episode, you will also have a cultural note about a general topic related to this episode.  We also include additional definitions not discussed on the podcast, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Going Out of Business.”  It’s a dialogue between Julianne and Helio about a business that has closed.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Julianne:  I’m really glad to be back in Macville.  What happened to the market that used to be here?  Helio:  Oh, it went belly up.  It struggled for many years.  The owners tried to downsize and reduced the space they were renting, but they had to throw in the towel when they got into debt.    Julianne:  What a shame!  It was such a nice store, and the family who owned it was always so friendly.  Helio:  Yeah, things have changed a lot around here.  Julianne:  Where is the restaurant that was next to the market?  I used to eat lunch there all the time.  Helio:  The owners couldn’t make it profitable and after trying to get loans to bail themselves out, they ran out of options.  They had to pack it in.    Julianne:  What’s happening here? # Reading Comic Books

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 337: Reading Comic Books.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 337.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download the Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where several times a week we put up some additional information to help you learn English.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store, where you can buy some of our specialty courses in business and daily life English.  The topic for this episode is “comic books,” things that are written with words and pictures.  We’ll talk a little bit about comic books in the United States during our discussion, and who reads them, and who doesn’t.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Lee:  What are you reading?  Stan:  It’s a graphic novel.  Lee:  Graphic novel?  You mean a comic book?  I thought you were too old for that sort of thing.  Stan:  For your information, this is a graphic novel and it’s a literary art form.  Graphic novels are written for mature audiences, not kids.  Lee:  Really?  I don’t know anything about comic books.  I like reading the comic strips in the newspaper, but I’ve never read an entire comic book before.  Stan:  You might want to check these out.  Look at this bound collection, for instance.  It has a storyline that’s as complex as a novel, and each panel is a work of art.  Lee:  It is pretty impressive looking.  I’m not that interested in superheroes, though. # Refusing an Invitation

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 338: Refusing an Invitation.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 338.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which contains business and daily English courses we think you’ll be interested in.  In this episode, we’re going to hear a dialogue between June and Roberto about an invitation that they have received from someone, and how they are going to say no to that invitation.  Some good vocabulary here on refusing a request or refusing an invitation.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  June:  Did you get an invitation to Kelly’s party?  Roberto:  Yes, I did.  I’m going to send my regrets.  How about you?  June:  I’m trying to find an excuse not to attend, without Kelly taking offense.  Roberto:  Couldn’t you just tell her that you have another engagement that night?  June:  I used that little white lie last time I turned down one of her invitations.  I have to think of something else.  Roberto:  How about telling her that you have to take care of a sick relative?  That one always works for me.    June:  I’ve used that one, too.  I told her that I was looking after my mother the last time she invited me to dinner.  Roberto:  How about if you tell her you’re on a special assignment at work and you have to work night and day to get it done?  June:  That’s a little far-fetched, don’t you think?  I work as a store clerk.  Roberto:  You’ve got a point there. # Star-crossed Lovers

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 339: Star-crossed Lovers.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 339.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com, and on it you can download a Learning Guide for this episode; an 8 to 10 page guide to help you pick up English even faster.  You can also go to our ESL Podcast Blog, where a couple times a week we have additional information to help you improve your English.  This episode is called “Star-crossed Lovers.”  The expression “star-crossed lovers” usually refers to two people who are in love, but the situation – the circumstances prevents them from really being together.  Let’s take a listen to the dialogue between Romeo and Juliette.  [start of dialogue]  Romeo:  What do you plan to do?  Juliette:  I don’t know!  I can’t defy my parents.  They’ve been against our relationship from the start, and I’ve been forbidden to see you.    Romeo:  It’s your life, not theirs.  It’s time you stood up to them and told them what you want.  I’m tired of being a puppet in the feud between your family and mine.    Juliette:  That’s easy to say, but I can’t confront my father and tell him that I want to be with you.  It would kill him!    Romeo:  No, it won’t.  He’s using guilt to get you to give me up.  Don’t let him manipulate you that way.    Juliette:  This is tearing me apart.  I can’t take it much longer.    Romeo:  You won’t have to.  I’m leaving – without you.    Juliette:  No!  You can’t.  I can’t live without you. # Office Competition

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 340: Office Competition.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 340.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide that contains all of the vocabulary, sample sentences, additional definitions that we don’t discuss on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Office Competition.”  We’re going to listen to a story that uses a lot of vocabulary you might find in discussing a competition, or a contest, or when one person tries to do better than someone else.  Let’s get started.  > Okay, everybody.  Listen up.  We’re approaching the end of the month.  Unless you’re new here, you know that we are in competition with our rival, the East Coast office, to have the most sales this period.    At the beginning of the month, we pulled ahead and it looked like we were finally going to turn the tables and defeat the East Coast office.  But after the first 10 days of this month, we fell into a tie with them, and as of last Friday, we are still neck and neck.    We’re now coming up to crunch time and the last thing we want is to fall behind when it looks like we may be able to top the East Coast office for the first time in two years.  I’m really proud of this office for outdoing itself to get us in a position to win, and there’s no reason we should suffer another loss now.  Okay, everybody, let’s put our noses to the grindstone and pull out this victory!
  Our story begins by the boss, who is speaking here, saying to everyone “Okay, everybody,” he’s getting their attention.  He’s getting them to stop talking perhaps, and listen to him.  He then says, “Listen up.”  “To listen up” is an informal way of telling people to pay attention, to listen to what you have to say. # An Annoying Cell Phone User

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 341: An Annoying Cell Phone User.  This is ESL Podcast episode 341.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, which has additional help in learning English throughout the week.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store, which contains additional business and daily English courses you might be interested in.  This episode is called “An Annoying Cell Phone User.”  Someone who is “annoying” is someone who bothers you, someone who is causing problems for you.  It’s a dialogue between Carl and Stephanie, who are sitting at a restaurant, and someone in the table next to them starts talking on their cell phone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Carl:  I’m sorry, say that again.  I couldn’t hear you over that guy at the next table shouting into his cell phone.  Stephanie:  That guy is so rude.  We’re trying to have a leisurely conversation over a cup of coffee, and we have to out shout some inconsiderate jerk.  Carl:  Do you think he realizes what a nuisance he is?  Stephanie:  I bet he doesn’t.  People don’t seem to have any idea of cell phone etiquette.  Cell phones should be banned from restaurants, don’t you think?    Carl:  I completely agree.  I don’t need to know the intimate details of other people’s lives.  I sometimes wish I had a cell phone jammer.  Like the other day, I was at the movie theater, and the woman sitting in front of me answers her cell phone and has a conversation during the movie!    Stephanie:  I would have kicked up a fuss or at least shushed her.    Carl:  I tried to shush her, but she pretended not to hear me.  I wish...[Carl’s cell phone rings]...hold on one second.  Hello, oh hi, Manny... # At the Butcher¡¦s

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 342: At the Butcher’s.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 342.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, the home of Hollywood.  You can visit our website by going to www.eslpod.com.  While you’re there, download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page guide that helps you improve your English even faster.  On this episode, we’re going to take a trip to the butcher’s.  A “butcher” is someone who cuts and prepares meat, and sells it.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Butcher:  What can I get for you?  Gina:  I’d like a pound of ground beef, please.    Butcher:  Would you like the regular or the extra lean?  The extra lean is a dollar more per pound.  Gina:  I’ll take the regular.  Could you also throw in two thick pork chops and two chicken breasts?  Butcher:  I’m sorry, but we’re out of chicken breasts right now, but we have some thighs.  Gina:  Hmm...In that case, I’ll just take some ham.  I’d like that thinly sliced.  Butcher:  Okay, is there anything else?  Gina:  Yes, I’d like some other cold cuts, but I’m not sure which ones.  Why don’t you give me half a pound of salami and a pound of bologna?    Butcher:  No problem.  Will that be all?  Gina:  No, I’d like two steaks.  Do you have any that are very, very tender?  The ones I bought last week were really tough. # Being Alike and Different

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 343: Being Alike and Different.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-four-three (343).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, the home of Hollywood; the home of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, and George Clooney – and Lucy Tse!  If you’d like to visit our website, you can go to eslpod.com.  While you’re there, you can take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional business and personal English courses you may be interested in.  This episode is called “Being Alike and Different.”  It’s a dialogue between Fabian and Clarissa; their dialogue is about different personalities.  It’s going to give you a lot of good vocabulary to talk about someone’s personality.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Fabian:  Oh, your babies are adorable.  They’re like two peas in a pod.  Clarissa:  They may look like mirror images of each other, but they’re nothing alike.  They each have their distinct personalities.  Randy likes to sleep during the day and Dominic likes to sleep at night.    Fabian:  That’s like my babies at home.  They’re polar opposites.  They don’t like eating the same foods and they have clashing personalities.    Clarissa:  Oh, really?  Does that cause problems?  Fabian:  Yes, sometimes it does.  One is playful all the time and the other one is always pensive.  They get on each other’s nerves more often than not.  I can’t believe they have the same parents.  Clarissa:  You’re telling me!  I sometimes wonder how two babies born at the same time can be so different.    [barking sound]  Oh, my precious little babies are hungry.  We’d better get home so they can eat. # At the Convention Center

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 344: At the Convention Center.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 344.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful, but today a little rainy, Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  While you’re there, take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has additional premium courses you may be interested in.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.    This episode is called “At the Convention Center.”  We’re going to go to a conference, or a convention.  I’m going to talk about typical vocabulary associated with going to a professional conference.  Let’s get started.  > I left my hotel early so I would arrive at the convention center in time for my presentation, but the bad traffic made me late.  My presentation was supposed to start at 2:00 and it was already 1:55!  To make matters worse, I had never been to this convention center before and I didn’t know my way around.  I walked into the foyer and looked around.  I was hoping to see a registration booth or the speakers’ room, where I was sure someone could point me in the right direction.  I walked down one hallway and found the main ballroom, but it was empty.  I saw a sign for meeting rooms upstairs and went up the escalator.  But when I got to the second floor, I didn’t see anyone around.  I looked over the landing, hoping to get my bearings, but that was no help.  By this time, I was sweating bullets.  The clock was ticking and I was late!    Then, I woke up.  It wasn’t the first time I had a nightmare like this, and I knew it wouldn’t be the last.  I wonder what my subconscious is trying to tell me?  At least this time, I was wearing my pants!
  Our story begins when I say “I left my hotel early so I would arrive at the convention center in time for my presentation.”  A “convention center” is a large building that is used for large group meetings.  There’s usually a place for people # The Seven-year Itch

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 345: The Seven-year Itch.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 345.  I’m your host...guess who?  Dr. Jeff McQuillan, that’s right, from Los Angeles, California – I should say beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  I’m feeling good today!  Be sure to visit our website at eslpod.com, where you can download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides are 8 to 10 page PDF files that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences using our new vocabulary in different context, additional explanations of words that have additional meanings beyond what we talk about on this episode.  You’ll also find a cultural note, as well as some comprehension questions in the Learning Guide.  Again, go to our website for more information.  This dialogue is called “The Seven-year Itch.”  It’s about how husbands and wives sometimes separate or divorce because the man wants to find a new partner.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sunny:  Did you hear the news?  Nancy and Brian are splitting up.    Igor:  How long have they been married?    Sunny:  Eight years.  I’m sure it was the seven-year itch.  I bet Brian was unfaithful to Nancy.  Igor:  How do you know?  Maybe it was Nancy who had a wandering eye.  Sunny:  Maybe, but it’s a shame.  They were such a nice couple.  Doesn’t anyone take marriage vows seriously these days?  To me, it’s a lifelong commitment.  Igor:  If you ask me, I think our notion of marriage is out of date.  Conventional wisdom is that everybody wants to be unfaithful after they’ve been married a few years.  Why not make marriage a short-term arrangement?  In my view, a marriage should last for seven years unless you want to renew.  If you don’t, you each go your separate ways. # Using the Restroom

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 346: Using the Restroom.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 346.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from – where else? – beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  Our website is eslpod.com.  On it you can find a Learning Guide for this episode that you can download to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also find our ESL Podcast Blog, where several times a week we give you additional help in learning English, and our ESL Podcast Store, where we have business and personal English courses for you to purchase.    This episode is called “Using the Restroom.”  A “restroom” is another name for a bathroom – a public, usually, bathroom, where you have toilets and sinks and so forth.  Let’s get started.  > Denzel:  Excuse me, where is the restroom?    Server:  It’s down the hall, on your left.  Denzel:  Thanks.  When I got into the bathroom, it was a mess.  I walked into a stall and there was toilet paper all over the floor.  There were no toilet seat covers and the toilet wouldn’t flush.  Even the toilet seat was broken!    I gave up on the stall and decided to use a urinal.  I went to wash my hands, but there was no soap in the dispenser.  I kept hitting the pump, but nothing came out.    When I turned on the faucet, water splashed all over my pants.  I looked for some paper towels to dry myself, but they were out.  I tried using one of the hand dryers, but that was broken, too.    I couldn’t believe what a mess this bathroom was.  I just thought, what happened here?  World War III? # Writing a Postcard

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 347: Writing a Postcard.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 347.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California – the home of Hollywood; the home of Dr. Lucy Tse!  On this episode, we’re going to listen to someone writing a postcard to a friend, and receiving a postcard.  We’ll discuss some typical vocabulary you might use when you are sending someone a postcard.  Let’s get started.  > I was on vacation in Yosemite and I decided to send a postcard to my friend, Elaine, who was on her own vacation in Europe.    Dear Elaine,  I arrived safely two days ago and I’m having the time of my life.  I met some nice people here and we’ve been keeping each other company.  The weather has been ideal and we’re off on another hike tomorrow.  This is the life.    Wish you were here.  I hope you’re having as good a time as I am.    See you soon!  Vivian  On the day I sent my postcard to Elaine, I got one from her.  She wrote:  Dear Vivian,  I’ve had a nightmare of a trip.  Our flight was delayed and we missed our connection to Oslo.  I’ve been here three days and it has poured the entire time.  There’s nothing to do but sit in the hotel.  What a dump!  It looks nothing like the pictures and it’s not at all what I expected.  I even got food poisoning the first day I was here!  I hope your trip wasn’t a washout like mine.  I can’t wait to get home! # Showing Disapproval and Sympathy

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 348: Showing Disapproval and Sympathy.  This is ESL Podcast episode 348.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This 8 to 10 page guide is available for each new episode of our podcast.  This podcast is called “Showing Disapproval and Sympathy.”  It’s a dialogue between Maggie and Joe about someone who is going to lose their job.  They’re going to use a lot of vocabulary we might use when you don’t like something – “to disapprove,” as well as to show sympathy to someone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Maggie:  Why the long face?  Joe:  I just heard that I won’t be rehired for next year.  Maggie:  That’s awful!  What a rotten thing for the management to do.    Joe:  I’ll be okay, but Monica is losing her job, too.    Maggie:  Oh no, not Monica, too.  I’m so sorry to hear that.  Who do they think they are?  How can they treat us this way?  Joe:  They’re management and they can do whatever they want to.  Monica just bought a new house and I’m sure she’s going to have to sell it.  Maggie:  That’s really too bad.  Listen, I know you’ll be dead set against the rest of us pulling together to talk to the management, but I think the time has come.    Joe:  I won’t let you or anyone else around here put your jobs on the line to try to save ours.  The management will definitely take a dim view of us workers trying to speak out.  Just lay low and hope that you won’t lose your job, too. # Taking Vitamins and Supplements

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 349: Taking Vitamins and Supplements.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 349.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page PDF file that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, winning lottery numbers, and a complete transcript for this episode.  This episode is called “Taking Vitamins and Supplements.”  It’s a story about how I go to the doctor, and the doctor tells me to take some pills to help me.  Let’s get started.  > The last time I went to the doctor for a checkup, she told me that I needed to start taking some dietary supplements that had the vitamins and minerals that my body needed to stay healthy.  I told her that I ate a balanced diet, but she said that many people who generally ate well still didn’t get the nutrients their bodies needed every day, and that’s why she recommends taking a multivitamin.  I remember taking chewable vitamins when I was a kid, but as an adult, I never thought I needed it.  It wasn’t because I had any signs of deficiency, she said, but that it was better to be safe than sorry.    I asked if it was possible to overdose on over-the-counter multivitamins, and she said that it was highly unlikely if I followed the recommended dosage.  She said that most people’s bodies are able to tolerate and absorb the multivitamins without any problems.  As I get older, she said, it’s all the more important to take care of myself.  She’s right, of course.  I shouldn’t neglect my health.  I just wonder if I can find some of those chewable vitamins in the shape of my favorite cartoon characters.  I may be an adult, but I don’t always have to act like one!
 # A Movie Review

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 350: A Movie Review.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 350.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  That 8 to 10 page guide contains much information to help you improve your English even faster, including a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Movie Review.”  It’s a conversation between Sally and Marcus about a new, exciting movie that they saw.  It includes a lot of vocabulary that you might read or hear about in a movie review.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sally:  Did you see the new movie, The McQuillan Story?  I’m writing a movie review for the school paper.  Marcus:  I went to the premiere last week.  What did you think of it?  Sally:  I liked it.  I thought it was entertaining, although it wasn’t groundbreaking, by any means.  Marcus:  You thought it was entertaining?  I thought it was awful.  I almost walked out.  The acting was wooden and uninspired, and the direction was amateur.    Sally:  Aren’t you being too critical?  It was the director’s first movie and I thought his directorial debut wasn’t bad.  If there was a problem, it was with the screenplay.  Marcus:  Don’t get me started on the screenplay!  The story was so predictable and the dialogue was pretentious.  This movie is going to bomb for sure.  Sally:  Oh, I don’t know.  I think some people may enjoy it.  Marcus:  If you want to do your readers a favor, you’d tell them to skip this movie and save their money! # Asking for a First Date

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 351: Asking for a First Date.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 351.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in – you know where – beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the definitions, vocabulary, sample sentences, additional definitions not discussed on the episode, cultural notes, comprehension questions, secrets to living forever, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Asking for a First Date.”  It’s a conversation between Natalie and Sergio.  Sergio likes Natalie, and he’s going to do that most dangerous thing: ask her to go on a date with him.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Natalie:  Hello.  Sergio:  Hi, could I speak to Natalie?  Natalie:  This is she.    Sergio:  Oh hi, this is Sergio.  How are you?  Natalie:  Good.  How about you?  Sergio:  I’m great.  Uh, well, the reason I’m calling is I was wondering if you’d like to go out sometime?  Natalie:  You mean on a date?    Sergio:  Yeah, with me.    Natalie:  I’d love to.    Sergio:  Really?  I mean, that’s great.  I was thinking we could grab dinner on Friday and then see a movie.  How does that sound? # Understanding Interest Rates

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 352: Understanding Interest Rates.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 352.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  On it, you can find a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page PDF file that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Understanding Interest Rates.”  It’s a dialogue between Kerry and Oscar about borrowing money from a bank.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Kerry:  I need to take out a small business loan and I’m trying to figure out what the interest rate would be.  Do you understand this stuff?  Oscar:  If it’s the same as a mortgage loan, then I think I understand it in general terms.  The interest rate would be the percentage of the amount you plan to borrow.  It’s usually calculated as an annual rate.  So, for instance, a 10 percent interest rate on $100 would be $10 a year.  Kerry:  Okay, I see, but how is my monthly payment calculated?  Oscar:  As the borrower, your monthly payment depends on the term of your loan.  Each month, you’ll pay money toward the principal, plus the interest you owe the lender.  The bank may also assess other fees for processing your loan, so make sure to read the fine print.    Kerry:  Thanks.  I understand it a little better now.    Oscar:  Are you sure you want to go down that road?  You don’t want to default on your loan and ruin your credit score.  Maybe there are other options.  Kerry:  Maybe there are, but I just don’t see any right now.  I have an appointment with an accountant next week and hopefully she can advise me on the best course of action. # Describing the Taste of Food

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 353: Describing the Taste of Food.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 353.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  While you’re there, take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that contains several premium courses on business and personal English I think you’ll be interested in.  This episode is called “Describing the Taste of Food.”  It’s a dialogue between Steve and Elaine, where Elaine is going to talk about what she really thinks of Steve’s food, and also what she actually says to Steve – they’re not the same.  Let’s listen.  > Steve, my new boyfriend, decided to cook dinner for me.  I was really excited, that is, until I tried his cooking.  Steve:  What do you think of the soup?  I thought:  This is so bland, and what are these little lumpy things in the soup?  Of course I didn’t say that aloud.  Elaine:  It’s delicious.  It has a very interesting flavor.  When Steve served the main course, a baked chicken, he asked,  Steve:  What do you think of the chicken?  Is it too salty or spicy?  I thought:  Yes!  It’s too salty and it’s so spicy I can hardly eat it without breathing fire.  The outside of the chicken is overcooked and the inside is raw!  But out loud, I said,  Elaine:  No, not at all!  It has an interesting texture and I’m enjoying every bite.  I thought:  Oh, no.  Is there more?  Steve went into the kitchen and brought dessert. # Being Scared

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 354: Being Scared.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 354.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Being Scared.”  It’s a dialogue between Emily and Stephen about going into a house that is supposed to be haunted.  Let’s get started.    [start of dialogue]  Emily:  I’m not going into that house.  It’s supposed to be haunted.  Stephen:  Come on.  Don’t be a coward.  You don’t believe in ghosts, do you?  Emily:  I don’t, but I’m not taking any chances.  Just look at that house!  It’s spooky.  I’m getting goosebumps just looking at it.  Stephen:  You’re only freaking out because you’ve watched too many horror movies.  It’s just a house.  Now, come on!  Emily:  Why are we doing this anyway?  Just because your friends dared you to go in doesn’t mean you have to.  This is stupid!  Stephen:  I took the dare and I told them I’d spend the night in that house.  If you’re a scaredy-cat, you can go home right now.  Emily:  And let you go in there by yourself?  What kind of girlfriend would I be?  I’m scared to death, but I’m not going to chicken out.  Okay, let’s go before I change my mind.  Stephen:  Really?  I didn’t think you’d have the nerve.  You’re braver than I thought.  Don’t worry.  Nothing in there can hurt us. # Finding a Bargain

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 355: Finding a Bargain.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 355.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  There you can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Finding a Bargain.”  It’s a dialogue between Manuel and Georgia about Georgia’s trip to the store.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Manuel:  Wow, I’ve never seen so many shopping bags in my life.  I can guess where you’ve been.  Georgia:  I did go overboard a bit today.  I went to the outlet mall and I found some real bargains.  Nearly everything was discounted.  I was in shopping heaven!  Manuel:  I can see that.    Georgia:  My favorite store had reduced prices for all of its sweaters, so I bought five.  They were already on sale, but the store knocked another $5 off the price.  I got them at half-price!  I was going to buy three, but the store had a special offer: If you buy four, the fifth one is free.    Manuel:  But doesn’t that mean you spent more money, since you bought five sweaters when you only wanted three?  Georgia:  How could I resist?  They were being sold at bargain basement prices.  At another store, the sale items were two for the price of one.  I’ve never seen things in that store so cheap.     Manuel:  Where are you going now?  Georgia:  I’m going back to the outlet stores, of course.  I just came home for a little breather.  There’s more shopping to be done! # Starting a Franchise Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 356: Starting a Franchise Business.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 356.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions that we don’t discuss on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  If you’re interested in improving your English as fast as possible, then the Learning Guide is for you!  On this episode, we are going to talk about starting a franchise business.  This is a business that pays a larger company for the right – for the permission to use their goods – their services.  For example, McDonald’s is a large restaurant company; you can buy a franchise.  You can open your own McDonald’s and use their material – their food by paying money to the larger McDonald’s company.  We’re going to hear a dialogue between Magdalena and Phil about opening a franchise.  It includes lots of other general business vocabulary as well.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Magdalena:  Thanks for meeting with me today.  I’ve read through the materials your company sent me, but I still have some questions about opening a franchise.  Phil:  That’s what I’m here for.  What questions can I answer for you?  Magdalena:  Well, I’m familiar with the franchise fee, but are there recurring fees not listed in these materials?  Phil:  That’s a good question.  In addition to the annual franchise fee and the monthly royalties, we also charge a training fee and an advertising fee.  Here’s a list of these and other fees.    Magdalena:  Oh, that’s very useful, thanks.  I was also wondering what kinds of quality controls the franchises are subject to. # Describing Facial Expressions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 357: Describing Facial Expressions.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 357.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  In our Learning Guide today, we talk about additional expressions related to facial expressions.  You’ll also learn about different meanings for some of the expressions we talk about today.  The Learning Guide is the fastest way to improve your English; it allows you to see all of the vocabulary and definitions, read new sample sentences to see if you really understand the words that you hear on the podcast.  You can also follow along and listen to every word that we say during the audio episode by taking a look at the transcript.  Finally, you can check your comprehension with comprehension questions.  Every episode of ESL Podcast has a Learning Guide, just go to our website to find out more.  This episode is called “Describing Facial Expressions.”  We’re going to listen to a conversation between Marjorie and Pedro about the way that people use their face to express their feelings.  There are different terms that we use for the kinds of expressions that you will see on someone’s face.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Marjorie:  I wish I could have been there when you told the managers that you were leaving the company and starting your own business!    Pedro:  Everyone was taken aback.  Dan gave me a dirty look, of course.  He’s always looked down his nose at me.  As for Sanjaya, if looks could kill...  Marjorie:  Sanjaya?  I thought if anyone would understand why you wanted to strike out on your own, he would.  I honestly don’t know him that well, but I thought he was a happy-go-lucky kind of guy.     Pedro:  Maybe I misread him, but he certainly wasn’t grinning ear to ear.  He just had a frown on his face the entire time.    Marjorie:  What about Wendy?  How did she react? # Surfing the Internet

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 358: Surfing the Internet.  This is ESL Podcast episode 358.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download the Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page guide we provide for all of our current episodes that gives you a complete list of the vocabulary words, definitions, new sentences using these words that you will learn on this episode, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Surfing the Internet.”  It’s a dialogue between Isaiah and Nancy about surfing the web.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Isaiah:  Aren’t you supposed to be working?  Nancy:  I just thought I would take a break and surf the web a little.    Isaiah:  You’d better be careful which sites you visit.  You know that Big Brother is watching.  Nancy:  The boss told us that, but I don’t believe it.  They’re not going to care if I read a blog or check out a forum once in a while.  Isaiah:  That may be, but I would suggest clearing your history and your cache after you do that.  You never know when someone is going to be checking up on you.  Nancy:  Listen, I’ve installed plug-ins and downloaded programs I’m not supposed to onto this computer, and I’ve never gotten into trouble.  I think the boss is just using scare tactics to keep us from messing around when we’re supposed to be working.  Isaiah:  Like I said, you can dig your own grave if you want to.  Vivian was shopping on the Internet on her work computer a couple of weeks ago, and some questionable pop-ups opened when she moved to a new tab.  She didn’t notice # A Fist Fight

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 359: A Fist Fight.  This is ESL Podcast episode 359.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Blog and our ESL Podcast Store, with some additional courses in business and daily English.  This episode is called “A Fist Fight.”  Your “fist” (fist) is your hand when you put the fingers and the thumb together against the palm of your hand.  It’s what you do if you are going to hit someone or punch someone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Isabella:  What are you doing?!  Why are you trying to hit that guy?  Tony:  He deserves it.  He insulted you.  I’m going to knock his block off!  Isabella:  Stop it!  Be civilized.  This isn’t some free-for-all.  You can’t punch a guy just because he said something offensive.  Tony:  Oh, yes I can.  Let me at him!  I’m going to clobber him.  Isabella:  If you take another swing at him, he’s going to have you arrested for assault.  Get a hold of yourself.    Tony:  I’m just trying to defend my sister’s honor.  What’s wrong with that?  Isabella:  Nothing, but violence isn’t the answer.  Let’s get out of here and cool off a little.    Tony:  All right, but if I ever see that guy again, he’ll get what’s coming to him.  Isabella:  Okay, okay, let’s go.  You said he insulted me.  What did he say?  Tony:  He said you had nice legs.  The nerve of that guy! # A Management Dispute

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 360: A Management Dispute.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 360.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  To take full advantage – to get the most out of this podcast episode, go to our website eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page PDF file that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this entire episode – every word we say.  That’s at eslpod.com.  This episode is called “A Management Dispute.”  A “dispute” is a disagreement.  We’re going to listen to a dialogue between Jeannie and Salih about a problem at their company – at their work regarding the “management,” or the people who are the bosses.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jeannie:  Have you heard about the new management dispute?  Salih:  No, what’s happening?  Jeannie:  Well, the CEO is having problems with the head of one of the subsidiaries.  Salih:  Which one?  Jeannie:  Lance Publishing.  Apparently, the head, Bill Riker, is saying that he and the CEO differ too much in their business philosophy and they can’t agree on a future direction for the company.  Salih:  I really hope they can settle their dispute soon.  It doesn’t do anybody any good to have so much hostility in the office.  Jeannie:  I hope so, too.  This company can’t afford to have another high-level departure.  We’ve lost so many good people already this past year. # Feeling Lonely

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 361: Feeling Lonely.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 361.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com – that’s www.eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the information you need to help you improve your English even faster, including all of the vocabulary, definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Feeling Lonely.”  “To be lonely” is to be sad because you are by yourself; you are alone, there is no one else with you.  Let’s get started.  > Moving to a new city can be a lonely experience.  When I first moved to Los Angeles, I didn’t know anyone and it was hard to strike up new friendships.  I’m a pretty sociable person, but it’s still hard meeting new people and even harder to make lasting friendships.  I’ve never been a lone wolf, so being in a new city out on my own was a new experience.  Sometimes I liked doing solitary things, but after awhile, I yearned to be around other people.  I would go to busy places to people-watch.  I would see families walking by, groups of friends hanging out together, and couples arm-in-arm, and wished I was walking along with them.  When you’re feeling lonely, it sometimes feels like there’s a wall between you and everyone else, a wall that’s not easy to break down.  Slowly, I started to meet people at my new job and to see them outside of work.  Having this companionship and camaraderie, especially with people I had a good rapport with, was a welcomed change.  In time, I made some good friends and I no longer dreaded the weekends.  But, I’ve never forgotten how hard it was in those first months to be a stranger in a new place!
 # Getting In-Flight Service

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 362: Getting In-Flight Service.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 362.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is www.eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store that has additional courses in daily and business English.  This episode is called “Getting In-Flight Service.”  We are going to go on an airplane and try to get some “service,” or some help from the people who work on the airplane.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  I pushed the call button to get the attention of the flight attendant.    Flight attendant:  Yes?  What can I do for you?  Hal:  It’s very cold in the cabin.  Is it possible to get a blanket?  Flight attendant:  We’re out of blankets, but here’s a pillow.    Hal:  Okay, thanks.  I was asleep during the meal service.  Could I get a meal?  Flight attendant:  We don’t have any more of the Baked Chicken.  We only have the Bean Salad left.    Hal:  Oh, okay, I’ll take that.  Could I also get a drink?  Flight attendant:  What would you like?  Hal:  What do you have?  Flight attendant:  The complimentary drinks are listed in our in-flight magazine.  Beer, wine, and other cocktails are $4. # Using the Telephone

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 363: Using the Telephone.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-six-three (363).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  To learn more about this podcast and to download a Learning Guide for this episode, go to our website at eslpod.com.  This episode is called “Using the Telephone.”  We are going to talk about some common vocabulary related to the telephone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Charles:  I don’t know how long this power outage is going to last.  Do you think we should call Elizabeth to tell her we’ll be late for dinner?  Jane:  That’s a good idea.  Do you know her phone number offhand?  Charles:  No, I don’t, and I can’t look it up in my address book or in the phone book without any lights.  Oh, wait.  I have it programmed into my cell phone.  I should be able to use speed dial to call her.  Oh, no.  Jane:  What’s the matter?  Charles:  My cell phone battery is dead.    Jane:  Maybe we can use the landline to call directory assistance.  The operator should be able to give us her number.  Charles:  I doubt it.  There must be more than one Elizabeth Bennett in our area code.    Jane:  You’re probably right, but I’ll try anyway.  Where’s the phone?  Oh, here it is.  Why aren’t I getting a dial tone?    Charles:  Try listening through the earpiece instead of the mouthpiece.  Jane:  Oh, right.  How do I dial 411 if I can’t see the keypad? # Filing Taxes

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 364: Filing Taxes.  This is ESL Podcast episode 364.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  You can go to our website at www.eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guides are designed to help you improve your English even faster.  They include all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences so you can test your comprehension by reading them.  We also have comprehension questions, additional definitions of words that we talk about here on the podcast; you’ll find cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  This episode is called “Filing Taxes.”  “To file,” here, means to send in your information to the government, and to pay the taxes that you must pay your state and national government, here in the U.S. anyway.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Ricky:  Aren’t you done with your taxes yet?  Shawn:  No, not yet.  Ricky:  Can I help?  Shawn:  That would be great.  I think I’m almost done, but it’d be great if you could look it over.  This is the first year I haven’t been exempt or filed an EZ tax return.  Ricky:  No problem.  What are brothers for?  Okay, you’ve entered your earnings, including your salary and dividends.  You have no dependents...  Shawn:  I just hope I picked the right number of withholdings.  I’d like to get a tax refund, rather than have to pay.    Ricky:  Well, you can take the standard deduction here, but I suggest itemizing your medical expenses and your charitable contributions.  It may make a big difference in the calculations. # Putting the Children to Bed

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 365: Putting the Children to Bed.  This is ESL Podcast number 365.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page PDF file that you can download, print out, and use to improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Putting the Children to Bed.”  “Putting the children to bed” means to get the young children ready so that they can go to sleep.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Andrea:  It’s your turn to put the kids to bed.    Marlon:  No, I put them to bed last night, didn’t I?  Andrea:  Nope, I did that.  Don’t forget their bedtime story.  Marlon:  The kids won’t let me forget it.  Okay, time for bed!  Go brush your teeth and put on your pajamas.  It’s lights out in 15 minutes.  Andrea:  What are you doing?  Marlon:  I’m finishing my newspaper.  Andrea:  Aren’t you going to watch over them to make sure they’re getting ready for bed?  Marlon:  Nope.  You have your methods and I have mine.  Andrea:  Okay, this I’ve got to see.  Marlon:  I don’t hear anyone brushing their teeth.  If everyone isn’t in bed in five minutes, they’re going to get a cuddle from Norman. # Talking About Prices

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 366: Talking About Prices.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 366.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode. The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page PDF file you can download for all of our current episodes.  It gives you the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, comprehension questions, additional definitions and cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Talking About Prices,” when you buy and sell things, as well as some general vocabulary related to the economy.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Rosalba:  Can you believe these prices?  I know we’re in a recession, but the cost of everyday necessities shouldn’t skyrocket overnight.    William:  I think it has something to do with the shortage of produce.  I don’t know why I’m surprised that stores like this one try to gouge customers at the drop of a hat.  I guess it’s par for the course – anything to make a little extra money.  Rosalba:  You said it!  Even when there’s a good supply, the prices are never dirt cheap.  Any savings the stores get are never passed on to the customers.  William:  I have a mind to stop buying fruits and vegetables until the prices go down.  Rosalba:  You mean a boycott?    William:  Yeah, I won’t eat any fruits and vegetables until these high prices come down.  Rosalba:  How long do you think you can keep that up?  William:  I don’t know, but let’s find out! # Going into the Military

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 367: Going into the Military.  This is ESL Podcast number 367.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page guide that will help improve your English even faster.  We also have our ESL Podcast Store, where you can buy additional courses in business and daily English I think you’ll enjoy.  This episode is called “Going into the Military.”  It’s a dialogue between Chantelle and Robert about life in the army, or in one of the military services.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Chantelle:  Attention!  Aren’t you supposed to salute?  Robert:  You’re not my superior officer.  Stop goofing around.  I’m busy.  Chantelle:  You’re packing already?  You don’t need to report to duty for two days.  Are you afraid they’ll think you went AWOL?  Robert:  I just want to be prepared.  Now, leave me alone so I can finish packing.  Chantelle:  Am I dismissed?  Maybe I want to enlist, too?  I think I would look good in camouflage make-up and fatigues.  Robert:  Being in the military is no laughing matter.  Do you really think that the most desperate recruiter would want you?    Chantelle:  That’s not very nice.  I have as much discipline as you do...about some things.  You may find yourself in a foxhole with me someday.  Robert:  Whatever deployment you’d get, I’d make sure I’m on the other side of the world!  [end of dialogue] # A Corporate Takeover

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 368: A Corporate Takeover.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 368.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  On it, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  If you’re looking for a way to improve your English even faster, download the Learning Guide.  This episode is called “A Corporate Takeover.”  It’s a dialogue between Lee and Bruce, talking about one company trying to buy another company.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Lee:  Hello, Lee Williams.  Bruce:  Hi, Lee.  This is Bruce Eng.  The reason I’m calling is to find out if there is any news about your company’s takeover bid for Shamrock Corp.  It’s been a week and I was wondering what’s happening.  Lee:  Hi, Bruce.  I’m glad you called.  I was just about to call you with an update.  Here’s where we are.  The offer we made to Shamrock was rejected by the board on Tuesday.  Our company’s board of directors has been meeting all week to decide the next course of action.  Bruce:  Is there any chance that this could turn into a hostile takeover?    Lee:  There is a distinct possibility.  Our company is hoping to avoid that since we had hoped to do extensive due diligence, but a hostile takeover may be the only option right now if we decide to move ahead with this.  Bruce:  Would the banks go for little or no due diligence?  I thought that their support of the takeover bid was contingent on getting more information about the state of Shamrock’s finances. # Going to Happy Hour

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 369: Going to Happy Hour.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 369.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences using those new vocabulary words, additional explanations, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Going to Happy Hour.”  “Happy hour” is a period of one to two hours, sometimes three hours, normally after work.  So, between 4:00 and 7:00 or 5:00 and 8:00 at night where bars and restaurants often offer cheap drinks and cheap food to get people to come after their work and have a drink and eat.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Gary:  Hey, over here.  I’m glad you could make it.  This place has a great happy hour.  Let me get the waitress, Brenda, so we can order our drinks.  Shanise:  Hi, Gary.  You sound like a regular.  Do you come here a lot?  Gary:  Yeah, I like stopping by on my way home now and then to wind down.    Shanise:  Is there another barstool?  Gary:  Oh, sorry.  Let me get another one for you.  Have a seat.  What will you have?  Shanise:  I’ll have a scotch, straight up.  I usually don’t drink very much.  Alcohol sometimes doesn’t agree with me.  I’ve had a tough day, though, and I need to loosen up.    Gary:  Okay, one scotch coming up.  Here comes the waitress.  Okay, that’s one scotch for Shanise and a draft beer for me.  On second thought, bring a pitcher of the draft beer, would you?  Thanks, Brenda. # Describing a Bad Experience

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 370: Describing a Bad Experience.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 370.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download the Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Describing a Bad Experience.”  It’s a dialogue between Caterina and Oliver about, well, something that was not very fun.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Caterina:  I can’t believe I let you rope me into seeing this performance.  It was so lame!  Oliver:  Okay, you’re right, it was the pits.  I had no idea it was going to be amateur hour.  When I saw the ad in the paper describing this as an experimental play, I thought it might be interesting.  Was I wrong!  Caterina:  I didn’t understand that play at all.  The music, if you can call it that, was atrocious.  How can anyone be expected to listen to that for more than three seconds without going crazy?  I wish I could get those two hours of my life back!  Oliver:  Yeah, it’s left a bad taste in my mouth, too.  Let’s go see something else.  I want to put this whole experience behind me.    Caterina:  Benjamin’s Bar is having open-mic tonight.  Do you want to check it out?  Oliver:  No way!  Wild horses couldn’t drag me to another amateur show.  How about a movie instead?  Caterina:  Okay, I’d go to a movie. # A Scandal

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 371: A Scandal.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 371.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you to improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in business and daily English we think you’ll enjoy.  This episode is a dialogue between Caridad and Nate; it’s called “A Scandal.”  A “scandal” is when someone does something wrong, and everyone is very angry – very upset about it.  Usually, it’s something that happens to a very public person, like a president or a governor.  This is a scandal about the president of a university.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Caridad:  Look at this!  The president of McQuillan University is stepping down.  He submitted his resignation this morning after an undergraduate student made allegations that they had an affair and that she’s pregnant with his baby.    Nate:  That’s terrible.  Maybe they were in love.    Caridad:  In love?  He’s married and has four kids, and when she first went public about the affair, he denied it and said that she had made up the whole story.  Would someone in love try to cover up something like this?  Nate:  Who knows?  The president of a major university is a person with a lot to lose.  I’m not making excuses for him, but maybe he lost his head.  Caridad:  Of course he had a lot to lose.  Anyone who is in the public eye like he is shouldn’t be playing with fire.  He’s an embarrassment to his family and to his university.  Nate:  I still think there could be extenuating circumstances.  All you know you’ve learned from one newspaper article. # A Bully at Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast episode 372: A Bully at Work.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 372.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page guide we publish for all of our current episodes that contains all of the vocabulary words, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions that we don’t talk about on the audio portion of the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Bully at Work.”  It’s a dialogue between Wanda and Dana about a problem they’re having at their job.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Wanda:  I can’t take it anymore.  I try to put up with Robert, but I’ve had enough!  Dana:  I’m not surprised.  That guy is a big bully and it’s time somebody stood up to him.  What has he done now?  Wanda:  This was the last straw.  We’re both managers and we’re supposed to work together, but Robert looks for every opportunity to put me down in front of our employees.  This morning, I presented an idea about upgrading our computer equipment and he jumped down my throat.  Dana:  What did he do?    Wanda:  He said that the idea was stupid and that he couldn’t understand how anyone could propose it.  He said this in front of everybody.  I was too stunned to respond, so I just stood there.  Dana:  That’s totally inappropriate and unprofessional.    Wanda:  He’s arrogant to everybody, but especially to me.  He always says he’s just being honest when he makes a biting remark, but I’m realizing that that’s just # Ordering Food Delivery

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 373: Ordering Food for Delivery.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 373.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide from our website to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional courses in business and daily English I think you may enjoy.  This episode is about ordering food from a restaurant to be delivered to your house.  It’s a conversation between a woman who’s calling and ordering the food and the restaurant employee.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Order clerk:  Hello, Torino’s Restaurant.  Nancy:  Hello, I’d like to place a delivery order.    Order clerk:  Can I have your address and the major cross streets, please?  Nancy:  It’s 1212 Main Street, and the nearest cross streets are Speedway and Highland.  Order clerk:  Okay, it looks like you’re in our delivery area.  What would you like to order?  Nancy:  I’d like an order of spaghetti.  Does that come with any sides?  Order clerk:  You have a choice of soup or salad.    Nancy:  I’ll have the salad.    Order clerk:  Is that all?  We have a $15 minimum for delivery orders.  Nancy:  In that case, I’ll also take an appetizer sampler plate. # A Graduation Ceremony

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 374: A Graduation Ceremony.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 374.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page guide that gives you all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using all of the vocabulary we go over here on the podcast, comprehension questions, additional explanations of vocabulary, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Graduation Ceremony.”  It’s a dialogue between Rafael and April talking about a typical American graduation from a high school or college.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Rafael:  They’re playing Pomp and Circumstance and the graduates are filing in.  Do you see your daughter?  I don’t see my son.  April:  No, we’re too far from the field and everybody is wearing a cap and gown.  It’s hard to see who’s who.    Rafael:  Oh, there’s the dean and I think that’s the commencement speaker behind her.  You must be really proud of your daughter.  I know I would be if my son were valedictorian.  April:  I’m very proud of her, but your son is graduating cum laude, with honors.  Those are great accomplishments.  Rafael:  It’s a proud day for both of us.  I just hope that the graduates will keep this a dignified ceremony.  I don’t want to see any shenanigans.  April:  What do you mean?    Rafael:  Last year when my other son graduated, a group of rowdy students started singing an offensive song as the graduates went up to get their diplomas. # A Call from a Telemarketer

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 375: A Call from a Telemarketer.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 375.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode and all of our current episodes.  You can also visit our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in English you may be interested in.  This episode is called “A Call from a Telemarketer.”  A “telemarketer” is someone who calls you on the telephone to sell you something.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Doris:  Hello.  Telemarketer:  Hello, may I speak to the lady of the house?  Doris:  What is this regarding?  Telemarketer:  I’m calling from Cheetam Cable Company and we have a very special offer.  This month only, you can get a bundle of services for the low, low price of $69.99!  This offer...  Doris:  Thank you, but I’m not interested.  Telemarketer:  But that’s because you haven’t heard the rest of the offer yet.  If you sign up today, you will get at no extra charge, all of the equipment you’ll need to switch to our cable company.    Doris:  As I said, I’m not interested.  I’m also on the national do-not-call registry and I want to be taken off your call list.    Telemarketer:  If you’re on my list, it means that you have a prior relationship with our company and telemarketers are allowed to call you.  Now about that special offer... # Asking About Business Hours

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 376: Asking About Business Hours.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 376.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  When you’re there, you can download a Learning Guide to this episode, an 8 to 10 page guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using the words that we describe and discuss on the podcast.  You’ll also find comprehension questions, cultural notes, additional explanations of vocabulary not found on the audio portion of this episode, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  This episode is called “Asking About Business Hours.”  It’s a telephone conversation between Karin and a man who owns a store, and she asks about their hours of business.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Store owner:  Hello.  Karin:  Hello, is this Joe’s Shoe Repair?  Store owner:  Yes, how can I help you?  Karin:  I’m calling to find out your business hours.  Store owner:  We’re open 24/7.  Karin:  Really?  You’re open 24 hours a day, seven days a week?  Store owner:  Yes, we are, more often than not.  Of course we close for major holidays.  Karin:  Is that all?  Store owner:  We also close the first and third Monday and every other Sunday of each month, except the fourth Sunday, when we’re always open 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., unless we have extended hours. # Reporting a Stolen Car

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 377: Reporting a Stolen Car.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 377.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Did you know we have a website?  Yes, we do!  You can find it at eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in English you may be interested in.  This episode is a dialogue between Kenji and a police officer, about his car that has been stolen.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Kenji:  Hello, my car was stolen and I want to report it.  Officer:  Where was it when it was stolen?  Kenji:  It was parked outside of my apartment building.  I went outside this morning to drive to work, and it was gone.    Officer:  Okay, you need to fill out this form.  Put down the make and model of the vehicle, the year, and the color.  You’ll also need the license plate number.  Do you know the vehicle’s VIN number?  Kenji:  No, I don’t.    Officer:  That’s okay.  Just fill it out and we’ll launch an investigation.    Kenji:  What do you think the chances are that I’ll recover my car?  Officer:  That’s hard to say.  If it was stolen by some kids who wanted to take a joyride, they’ll abandon it afterwards and you may get it back in one piece.  If it was taken by professional car thieves, that’s a different story.  They usually strip the cars of their parts and sell them to chop shops.  You may not want your car back after it’s been stripped. # Talking About Time

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 378: Talking About Time.  This is ESL Podcast episode 378.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional courses in business and daily English I think you may be interested in.  On this episode, we’re going to talk about time; common time-telling expressions will be our focus today.  We’ll listen to a dialogue between Juanita and Chuck about the time.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Juanita:  What time is it?  Chuck:  It’s a quarter to 12.  Why?  Juanita:  At noon, on the dot, I’m supposed to meet James.  Chuck:  On the dot?  What if you don’t get there until a few minutes past four?  Will you turn into a pumpkin?  Juanita:  Knock it off.  I have good reason to be on time.  I was supposed to meet him at the movies at 8:30 last Saturday and I didn’t turn up until 10 ‘til 9:00.  We missed the first 10 minutes of the movie.  Chuck:  That doesn’t sound too bad.    Juanita:  You don’t know the half of it.  The week before that, I was supposed to pick him up from work at a quarter after 5:00, and I didn’t show up until nearly 20 minutes to six.  To add insult to injury, James’ boss saw that he was still in the office and gave him an extra assignment to do that night and he didn’t finish until well after 10:00.    Chuck:  I can see why he’s pissed off at you. # A Routine Procedure

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 379: A Routine Medical Procedure.  This is ESL Podcast episode 379.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  We have a website.  Oh yes, we do!  You can visit it at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode, which contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  If you’re looking for a way to improve your English even faster, take a look at our Learning Guide on the website.  This episode is called “A Routine Medical Procedure.”  Something that is “routine” means it is common; it is not complicated or particularly difficult, something you do all the time.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Julia:  Aren’t you nervous about your surgery next week?  Hugh:  No, it’s a routine procedure.  I don’t even need to be admitted overnight.    Julia:  But aren’t you going under general anesthesia?  It’s not the same as local anesthesia, you know.  Hugh:  Yes, I know.  This is an out-patient procedure.  If the doctors don’t think I can go home the same day, they’ll just keep me under observation.    Julia:  All the same, there may be complications.  Hugh:  It’s supposed to be a low-risk procedure.  If there are post-op problems, I’m sure the doctors will take good care of me.  Julia:  But what if they release you too early from the hospital.  I’ve heard that these days doctors are under pressure to free up beds as soon as possible. # Hiring Temp Workers

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 380: Hiring Temp Workers.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 380.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go here and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, as well as our ESL Podcast Blog.  This episode is called “Hiring Temp Workers.”  “Temp” is short for temporary; this is when companies hire people for short amounts of time to do work.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Bethany:  I just talked to Steve about hiring replacements for Cyril, who quit last month and for Megan, who is leaving at the end of this week.  Do you know what he told me?  He doesn’t want to hire permanent replacements.  He wants to make do with temps!  Enrique:  I can see it from Steve’s perspective.  The economy isn’t so good right now and maybe he’s not sure if we can afford full-time replacements.    Bethany:  But how am I supposed to staff the office to cover all of the work that needs to be done with temps?!   Enrique:  Don’t undervalue temps.  Many of them are very skilled and you may be surprised at how well they do.  I should know.  I worked as a temp right after graduating from college.  Bethany:  You did?  I didn’t know that.  But you went to a great school.  I’m surprised you had trouble landing a full-time job.    Enrique:  Actually, I was offered a full-time job before I graduated, but I turned it down.  I decided I wanted to test the waters in a few different companies before deciding on where I wanted to work.  In retrospect, it was the best thing I could have done. # Watching the TV News

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 381: Watching the TV News.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 381.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  The Learning Guide has all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension checks, culture notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Watching the TV News.”  We’re going to listen to two people on the television giving us the news.  It will give us a chance to talk about some of the special vocabulary you may hear when listening or watching the news.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Anchor:  Good evening.  I’m Gary Singh and this is the evening news.  Tonight, we’ll have a special report from our field reporter, Monique Sanders, on the latest developments in the Eddie Litton court case.  And in our feature segment, we’ll go to Arizona to interview the world’s fattest dog, weighing 210 pounds!  We’ll also have this week’s weather and the latest on sports.  But first, our top story: A man suspected of murdering his business partner led the police on a high-speed chase through downtown this afternoon.  Reporting live from downtown Los Angeles is Tanisha Gray.  Tanisha?  Tanisha:  Thanks, Gary.  About three hours ago, the police cordoned off a half-mile area around City Hall after the suspect ran into one of the City Hall offices and took two women as hostages.  After a nearly two-hour standoff, the suspect surrendered.  Neither of the two women was hurt and the suspect is now in police custody.  Back to you, Gary, in the studio.    Anchor:  Thanks for that report, Tanisha.  We’ll have more for you as this story develops.    [end of dialogue] # Types of Hotels and Accommodations

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 382: Types of Hotels and Accommodations.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 382.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development, located in the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary and definitions for the main words of this episode.  It also includes sample sentences using the words in new sentences.  You will also find comprehension checks, additional definitions not found on the audio portion of this episode, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode – everything we say you can find on the Learning Guide.  This episode is called “Types of Hotels and Accommodations.”  It’s a dialogue between Jamal and Erin talking about the different places you can stay, and how we describe those hotels and other places in English.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jamal:  Have you found a place for us to stay in Chicago?  Erin:  I’m still exploring the options.  Instead of a run-of-the-mill chain hotel, I thought we could do something different.  Jamal:  How different?  Erin:  I thought we might stay in a cabin near the lake.    Jamal:  A cabin?  That sounds a little too rustic for me.  My days of roughing it in hostels or fleabag motels are over.  A cabin sounds like it would be in the same league.  Erin:  Oh, I don’t know.  There are some very nice cabins, and even if they’re less than luxurious, I don’t mind staying in a modest place.  We can’t afford an expensive boutique hotel, you know. # Mending a Broken Heart

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 383: Mending a Broken Heart.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 383.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional special courses in both business and daily English I think you may enjoy.  This episode is called “Mending (or fixing) a Broken Heart.”  A “broken heart” is when someone feels sad usually because a romantic relationship has ended.  I know how this feels – many, many times I have felt it!  We’ll hear a dialogue between David and Victoria about someone who has a broken heart.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  David:  Why has Joyce been moping around all week?  What’s wrong with her?  Victoria:  She’s suffering from a broken heart.  Her boyfriend broke up with her over the weekend.  They had been together for two years.    David:  Did she tell you the gruesome details?  Victoria:  Not really.  She just said that she’s feeling depressed and she didn’t want to talk about it, but you can see the grief all over her face.    David:  I can think of a way to cheer her up.  I’ve always wanted to go out with Joyce.  Maybe I’ll ask her out.  Victoria:  Wait a second.  I think she’s feeling pretty vulnerable right now, and there’s no way she’s ready to date yet.  I think you’re jumping the gun.    David:  There’s nothing better to help someone bounce back from a failed relationship than the promise of a new one. # Accepting Credit Cards

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 384: Accepting Credit Cards.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 384.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com – that’s www.eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode on our website that will give you all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension checks, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  Our episode today is called “Accepting Credit Cards.”  It’s a dialogue between Danny and Katy using a lot of vocabulary that we use in business to talk about credit cards and accepting them in a store.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Danny:  Are you sure we should start accepting credit cards from our customers?  We’ve always been a cash-only business.    Katy:  I think we need to for the convenience of our customers.  It won’t be as big a nuisance as you think, with this new cash register.    Danny:  The instructions say the merchant has to swipe the cardholder’s card at the POS.  What’s that?  Katy:  That stands for point of sale.  For us, that’s the cash register.  All you have to do is take the credit card and swipe it through here, making sure that the magnetic strip is facing you.  It’s simple.  Danny:  Do I have to write down the credit card number, the expiration date, and the security code on the back?  Katy:  No, the cash register does that for you automatically.  It will save you a lot of time.  Danny:  What if the customer goes over his or her credit limit? # Exercising at the Gym

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 385: Exercising at the Gym.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 385.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you approve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Exercising at the Gym.”  It’s a dialogue between Jae and Sally about common exercise-related vocabulary.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jae:  Hi, are you done with this weight machine?  Sally:  Yeah, I am.  I was just trying it out.  I think I must be doing something wrong.  My muscles are aching already.    Jae:  Maybe I can help.  I’ve been working out on these machines for a few months, so I’m pretty used to them.  Sally:  I just joined the gym this week.  I usually do a cardio workout on a treadmill or stationary bike, and I’ve used free weights at home before.  But now it makes sense to do my strength-training here.  Jae:  Have you thought about getting a personal trainer?  When I joined, I signed up for a trainer for a few sessions and she helped me set up a good regimen.  Sally:  That’s a good idea.  Jae:  If you want help with those machines, though, I’m usually here every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.  Sally:  Thanks, I’ll definitely look out for you.  I’m Sally.    Jae:  I’m Jae.  Nice to meet you.  Sally:  You, too.  I think I’ve sweated enough today.  I’m off to the locker room. # Learning How to Drive

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 386: Learning How to Drive.  This is ESL Podcast number 386.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional courses in daily and business English.  This episode is called “Learning How to Drive.”  It’s a dialogue between Xavier and Brandy, and it includes a lot of vocabulary you would use in talking about driving a car.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Xavier:  Look out!  Put your foot on the brake!  Brandy:  I am braking.  Xavier:  No, your foot is on the gas pedal!  Brandy:  Oh.  There’s the brake.    Xavier:  You just took 10 years off my life.  I was sure you were going to hit the median or the railing.  I didn’t know what I was getting into when I agreed to teach you how to drive.    Brandy:  Relax.  I’m really getting the hang of this.  Shifting gears isn’t as hard as I thought it would be, it’s cool to parallel park, and driving in reverse is fun!  Xavier:  Would you please keep your hands on the steering wheel, instead of playing with the radio?  Keep your eyes on the speedometer and stop using the rearview mirror to look at yourself.  Brandy:  And you stop working yourself into a tizzy.  I’m a fine driver.  Xavier:  I don’t think those people you’re about to hit would agree with you. # Describing Talent and Ability

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 387: Describing Talent and Ability.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 387.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not discussed on the podcast, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Describing Talent and Ability.”  It’s a dialogue between Kathy and Brad talking about how good certain members of a sports team are.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Kathy:  Thanks for inviting me to see your team.  Who’s your best player?  Brad:  That would be Sarah.  She’s a natural.  No one comes close to her speed and dexterity.  She has good instincts and a flair for getting out of difficult situations.    Kathy:  She sounds promising.  Anyone else I should be keeping an eye on?  Brad:  Mollie is a good player, too.  In terms of scoring points, she can almost do it in her sleep.  She’s also very good at being a leader to the other players, and she has a knack for getting along with even the most difficult teammates.  Kathy:  As you know, we recruit only first-rate players for the national team, and this year, we hope to be head and shoulders above any of the other teams.  The days of making do with mediocre players are over.  Brad:  I understand that.  We have a game this Saturday.  Why don’t you come out and judge for yourself?  I think you’ll be impressed with the talent you see.    Kathy:  I’m sure I will.  I’ll be here on Saturday ready to be dazzled.  [end of dialogue] # Investing Your Money

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 388: Investing Your Money.  This is ESL Podcast episode 388.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help improve your English even faster; we suggest you take a look at the Learning Guide.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store and an ESL Podcast Blog, where you can go and get additional courses in English and additional help each week on a variety of English language topics.  This episode is called “Investing Your Money.”  It’s going to be a speech, really, by someone who is trying to tell people – instruct people – how they should invest their money – how they should keep their money so that they can make more money.  Let’s get started.  [start of speech]  Ladies and Gentlemen,  Thank you for coming to today’s seminar.  We’re going to talk about how to invest your money and how to maximize those holdings.  First, we’ll talk about market trends and where to find the best opportunities right now.  Getting in on the ground floor and getting the highest appreciation is what we all want.  A good investor also knows when to divest, and we’ll talk about how to read the warning signs.  Many of you have money in savings, but you want a better rate of return, and you’re willing to speculate a little to get it.  We’ll discuss how to diversify your portfolio to minimize risk while maximizing your return.  Are you ready to make some money?  Let’s get started!  [end of speech]  This episode is about making money.  A man is giving a presentation – a seminar.  A “seminar” is a class for a small group of people on a specific subject. # Getting a Cold

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 389: Getting a Cold.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 389.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode on our website.  The Learning Guide will help you improve your English even faster.  You get all of the vocabulary words, definitions, new sample sentences, additional definitions not talked about on the audio podcast, culture notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Getting a Cold.”  It’s dialogue between Walt and Irene.  Irene is getting sick; she’s getting a cold.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Walt:  What’s the matter with you?  Irene:  I have a bad cold.    Walt:  Why didn’t you stay home from work?  You’re probably contagious!    Irene:  I had no choice.  I have an important presentation this afternoon and I can’t play hooky.  Walt:  You can’t give a presentation in your condition.  Your nose is running, your eyes are red and puffy, your voice is hoarse, and you look like you’re running a fever.  Irene:  Gee, thanks.  I know I look terrible, but I’ll get through it.  I’m taking a nasal decongestant, I’m using eye drops, and I’m taking cough medicine and sucking on throat lozenges.  I should be better by the time of the presentation.  Ahchoo!    Walt:  Oh, geez!  You just sneezed all over me.  You’ve contaminated me for sure! # Dietary Restrictions and Preferences

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 390: Dietary Restrictions and Preferences.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 390.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode, which will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Dietary Restrictions and Preferences.”  It’s a dialogue between Tony and Carmela.  “Dietary” refers to what you eat, so the conversation will be about different types of food – different things that people can’t eat because of their particular preferences or medical restrictions.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Tony:  Who did you invite over for dinner Saturday?  Carmela:  I invited Keith, Sung, Stephanie, and Luis.  Tony:  You didn’t!    Carmela:  I did.  Why?  Tony:  You’re going to have a hard time cooking for them.  Keith is a vegan and only eats food that’s organic.  Sung is lactose intolerant and his doctor put him on a low-salt diet.  Carmela:  Really?  I didn’t know.  How do you know so much about their diets?    Tony:  I went on a trip with them and I’ll never do it again.  We could never agree on a restaurant.    Carmela:  What about Stephanie and Luis?  Tony:  Stephanie is a health nut, and doesn’t eat anything with saturated fat, added sugar, or artificial flavors.  She also doesn’t eat red meat.  And Luis, he can only eat gluten-free kosher foods. # Traveling and Medical Needs

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 391: Traveling and Medical Needs.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 391.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Traveling and Medical Needs.”  It’s a dialogue that includes lots of vocabulary related to the kinds of medical problems you might have when you travel.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Delia:  Oh, my feet hurt!  We must have walked for four hours straight today.  I have blisters on my heels and bruises on my toes.  Where are my band-aids?    Yoshi:  Yeah, your feet look bad.  I told you not to wear new shoes on vacation, but you wouldn’t listen.  Delia:  Oh, yeah?  Look at you!  I told you to put on sunscreen, and did you?  Your face and neck are sunburned.  Your skin is going to be red and peeling tomorrow.  Yoshi:  I’ll be fine.  If it weren’t for my stomachache, I’d be ready to walk another four hours.    Delia:  I told you not to eat food from street vendors.    Yoshi:  My stomach is just feeling a little irritated and I have a little diarrhea.  It’s nothing serious.  Delia:  You probably have salmonella or food poisoning.      Yoshi:  No, I don’t!  Don’t be ridiculous.  Here are some band-aids.  Now leave me in peace.  Delia:  Fine.  I’ll let you suffer in silence.  I won’t say another word. # An Untrustworthy Co-worker

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 392: An Untrustworthy Co-worker.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 392.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains additional information to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “An Untrustworthy Co-worker.”  It’s a dialogue between Vicky and Gerard talking about someone they work with who cannot be trusted.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Vicky:  Did I imagine it or did you just give Gavin the cold shoulder?  Gerard:  You didn’t imagine it.  I’m not too happy with him.  Vicky:  Why?  What did he do?  Gerard:  He’s two-faced, that’s why.  Last week, he told me he was going to put in a good word for me with the manager for a promotion.    Vicky:  So that sounds like a nice thing to do.  Gerard:  I thought so, too.  But as it turns out, I heard from Elanda that he was bad-mouthing me behind my back.    Vicky:  Are you sure?  Gerard:  I’m sure.  He told Elanda that he thought I had gone pretty far in the company for someone who had dropped out of college.  That’s a backhanded compliment, if I’ve ever heard one.  Vicky:  That sounds pretty nasty.  At least the manager wasn’t around.    Gerard:  She wasn’t, but who’s to say what he told her behind my back? # Trash and Recycling

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 393: Trash and Recycling.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 393.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Trash and Recycling.”  It has become popular in many countries, including the United States, to try to reuse certain things – to recycle certain things – to help protect the environment.  We’ll listen to a dialogue between Rajid and Nicole talking about recycling.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Rajid:  What are you doing?  Nicole:  I’m putting my garbage into the garbage can.  Why?  Rajid:  Don’t you recycle?  You’re supposed to separate out your recyclables and put them in a separate bin.    Nicole:  I know, I know, but who has the time?  I don’t have that much trash anyway.    Rajid:  Oh, yeah?  The dump is full of food containers that aren’t biodegradable from people who didn’t have the time.  Nicole:  Come on.  Don’t blow things out of proportion.  It’s not like I’m going to save the environment all by myself.  Rajid:  No, you’re not, but if everybody thinks the same way you do, we’re going to use up all of our natural resources.  Nicole:  When did you turn into an ecologist?  I don’t see you conserving energy.  You have your lights on all night.  I can see them through your window. # Describing Hatred and Anger

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 394: Describing Hatred and Anger.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 394.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Visit it and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the audio podcast, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of every word we say on this episode.  This episode is a dialogue between Danica and Neil about anger and hatred, some common vocabulary we use when we are angry with someone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Danica:  Calm down!  Stop throwing things!  Have you gone berserk?    Neil:  Calm down?!  Calm down?!  You don’t know what just happened.  Danica:  I’ve never seen you lose your temper like this before.  Take a deep breath and tell me what happened.    Neil:  Okay, you know that I like Samantha, right?  Well, I told Malik last week.  I just found out today that he’s dating her.    Danica:  Malik?  But he’s your best friend.  He wouldn’t do that.    Neil:  Do you think I’d be having a fit if I weren’t absolutely certain?  Danica:  How can you be so sure?  Did he tell you?  Neil:  He didn’t have to.  I saw him with Samantha together after work.  He had his arm around her!  I was ready to go off the deep end when I saw the two of them together. # Watching the Olympic Games

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 395: Watching the Olympic Games.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 395.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, home of the 1932 and 1984 Summer Olympic Games.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, additional definitions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  We’re going to talk today about some vocabulary related to the Olympic Games, in particular the Summer Olympics, since this episode is being released in the summer of 2008 when the Olympic Games will be held in Beijing, China.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Mary Lou:  Am I too late for the opening ceremony?    Jesse:  No, it’s just starting.  The runner is just coming into Olympic Village with the torch.    Mary Lou:  Oh, this is so exciting!  I love the summer Olympics.  Track and field, gymnastics, swimming – I can’t wait!  Jesse:  Oh, here come the athletes from each country, with their flag bearer in front.  Look at all those gold, silver, and bronze medalists.  Mary Lou:  Isn’t it funny that that country only has one competitor?  Jesse:  No way!  Can you imagine the accolades you’d get as the only athlete from your country that’s of Olympic caliber?  I’d trade places with her any day.    Mary Lou:  This schedule says that the track and field events begin tomorrow.  Jesse:  Yeah, but those are just the qualifying heats.  The real races don’t start for three days.  What’s that? # Dealing in the Black Market

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 396: Dealing in the Black Market.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 396.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and you can find a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page PDF file that you can download, and use to improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Dealing in the Black Market.”  This is something that happens in most countries, I think, where people buy and sell things that they aren’t paying taxes on, or perhaps might even be illegal.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jasinda:  Was that your friend Mitch?  Thomas:  Yeah, he and I had lunch today to talk about some business opportunities.  Jasinda:  What line of work is he in?  Thomas:  Well, I guess you could say he’s in the import/export business.  Jasinda:  Hmm…Why are you being so shifty?  Isn’t his business on the up and up?  He doesn’t deal in the black market, does he?  Thomas:  Let’s just say that he takes full advantage of a free market and there’s nothing wrong with the gray market.  Jasinda:  You’re not telling me he deals in stolen goods, are you?  Thomas:  No, no, nothing like that.  Don’t be so naive.  There is an entire underground economy in this country, which serves an important purpose.  It gets people what they want.  Jasinda:  Is he a smuggler?  Does he deal in counterfeit or pirated goods?  Is that it? # Being a Divorced Parent

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 397: Being a Divorced Parent.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 397.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides contain all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using the words that we discuss in the episode, additional explanations not found on the audio podcast, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of every word we say on this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, where we have some additional business and personal English courses we think you will be interested in.  This episode is called “Being a Divorced Parent.”  It’s a dialogue between Oscar and Penny, talking about the problems, the sometimes difficulties, of being a parent, taking care of your son or daughter, when you are divorced – when you have legally separated from your husband or wife.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Oscar:  How are you adjusting to being a single parent?  Penny:  It hasn’t been easy, but Paul and I are trying to be as civil as possible.  We worked out joint custody so that Mina will get quality time with both of us.  Still, it’s been an adjustment for her.  Oscar:  I’m sure, and for you and Paul, too.  Will you get to see Mina when she’s with her father?  Penny:  We each have visitation rights.  Fortunately, Paul and I both want what’s best for Mina, so we’re working hard to make the right decisions.  Oscar:  If you don’t mind my asking, how are you managing financially?    Penny:  Neither of us is paying alimony to the other so that was never an issue, but Paul will be paying child support since I’ll have Mina most of the year.  Paul had no objections.  He’s been amenable to anything that would be good for Mina. # Parts of a City

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 398: Parts of a City.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 398.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  We have a website at eslpod.com.  Go there today and download a Learning Guide for this episode, a special 8 to 10 page guide that gives you all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of every word we say on the episode.  This episode is called “Parts of a City.”  It’s a dialogue between Tanya and Darren using vocabulary that we have to describe different parts of a city.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Tanya:  We’ve been here for three days and I’m still getting lost.  Darren:  Here’s a map.  These are the residential neighborhoods.  See?  This is where we’re staying.  Tanya:  I know, I know.  But where were we today?  The tour bus went down so many alleys that I lost my bearings after 10 minutes.  I thought we were going in circles.    Darren:  Look, we drove through downtown first, past the financial district.  Next, we drove past the housing projects to the historic district.    Tanya:  I remember all that.    Darren:  Okay, then.  From the historic district, we drove through uptown.  Got that?  Tanya:  Yeah, that’s where things get a little hazy.  How did we get to the outskirts of town?  One minute we were in uptown, and the next minute, we were at the city limits. # A Bachelor Party

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 399: A Bachelor Party.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 399.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  On it, you can find a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “A Bachelor Party.”  A “bachelor party” is a party for a man who is about to be married.  Usually it is a party that is organized by his friends.  Let’s get started.  > My best friend, Saul, is getting married.  As the best man, it was up to me to plan a bachelor party he’d never forget.  All of the groomsmen were chipping in, so we went all out.    I invited everybody over to my apartment.  Instead of going to a strip club, we hired a stripper.  Before the stripper arrived, we played some drinking games and we gave Saul some gag gifts.  We all started to get pretty bombed, but we weren’t thinking of the hangover we’d have the next day.    When the stripper arrived, we told “her” to give Saul a lap dance.  He had never had one before and he was really embarrassed!  But the best part was when Saul saw the stripper: It was a man!  Everyone had a good laugh, and we took some pictures so we’d have incriminating evidence.  We poked fun at him for the rest of the night.    And as best man, what was my most important job of all?  It was not letting his fiancée find out what happened that night – at least not before the wedding!
  Our story today is about a bachelor party.  Not every man who gets married has a bachelor party; I did not have a bachelor party the night before I got married.  I just went to dinner with some old friends of mine – male friends from Minnesota, who had flown to Los Angeles for my wedding.  But some people have bachelor # Working in a Dead End Job

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 400: Working in a Dead End Job.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 400.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Working in a Dead End Job.”  It’s a conversation between Kurt and a woman who works at an “employment agency,” a company that helps you find a job.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Agency employee:  Tell me why you’d like to sign up with our employment agency.  Kurt:  Well, right now I’m working in a dead end job.  There are no opportunities for advancement.  I’m already at the top of the pay scale, so there’s no chance of another pay raise.  Agency employee:  Okay, I’d like to find out a little more about your employment history.  Tell me about your last job.  Kurt:  Oh, that was a mind-numbing position.  I did menial work all day and I burned out in six months.    Agency employee:  What about the job you had before that?    Kurt:  The problem with that job was that there was a glass ceiling.  They would never promote a person like me.  Agency employee:  And what about the job you had before that?  Kurt:  I only took that job as a steppingstone to the next one, but it turned out to be a stumbling block instead.  My boss didn’t like me and wouldn’t give me a good reference.