# Introducing Yourself

Welcome to Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself.  

This is Daily English number 1. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beau tiful Los Angeles, California. 

This episode is a story about me, introducing vocab ulary you need to talk about yourself. Let’s get started. > Let me tell you a little about myself.  
> I was born and raised in Minnesota and I’m a native  of the city of Saint Paul. I grew up there with my parents and my eight brothers  and two sisters. I’m the eleventh child, so you could say I’m the baby of th e family, but I swear I wasn’t spoiled.  
> That’s right, I’m part of a big family, probably th e biggest family in the neighborhood, perhaps the biggest family in the sta te! 
> I had a happy childhood, for the most part. My fath er and mother didn’t have a lot of money, but because they both worked hard, we nev er felt deprived. 
> I wasn’t much interested in sports, like my brother s were. I enjoyed reading and listening to music while growing up. I went to grad e school near my house, and then to high school about two miles away from our h ome. 
> After graduating from high school, I went on to the  University of Minnesota for my bachelor’s degree. It took me a while to learn the ropes at the university, but I finally graduated about six years later. Better lat e than never, as my father used to say.  
> I then went to Mexico for a couple of years to teac h English and to study Spanish. When I returned, I decided to become a tea cher, so I went back to school to get my master’s degree. After teaching hi gh school for a few years, I was offered a job in California, so I moved to Los Angeles in 1991. After working here for a few years, I went back to school (again! ) to get my Ph.D. I was starting to become a professional student.   
> Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself  
>  Well, I completed my Ph.D. in four years and then t aught at the university for several years. Now I work at a small research organ ization here in Los Angeles. I am happily married, and I still enjoy reading and l istening to music, and of course, creating ESLPod.com lessons.

Our story begins by me saying, “Let me tell you a l ittle about myself.” I’m going to give you some information about me. I start by sayi ng, “I was born and raised in Minnesota.” “To be born” (born) means, of course, t o come out of your mother, to be separated from your mother’s body. “To be raised ” (raised) means to be cared for as a child until you are an adult. We might als o use the phrasal verb “to be brought (brought) up.” You may, for example, be “bo rn” in one city and “raised” in another, if your parents moved soon after you were born.  

In the story I say, “I was born and raised in Minne sota.” Minnesota is a state in the north-central part of the U.S. on the border of  Canada. I continue by saying that I am a “native” (native) of the city of St. Pa ul. A “native” is a person born in a specific place. I am a native of St. Paul because t hat’s the city where I was born. I could also say, “I’m a native of Minnesota,” beca use I was born in the state of Minnesota. I could say, “I’m a native of the United  States,” because I was born in the United States. So, depending on what place you want to use, you can say you are a “native” of that particular place. 

Well, I was a native of St. Paul. I grew up there w ith my parents and my eight brothers and two sisters. I say then, “I am the ele venth child, so you could say” – that is, you could call me – “the baby of the famil y.” The “baby” (baby) here means the youngest person in the family, or the you ngest child of your parents. We call that person “the baby of the family.” The w ord “baby” usually refers to a child from the time he is born until maybe two or t hree years old, but if someone says, “he’s the baby of the family” or “she’s the b aby of the family,” he means that person is the youngest of the family. We would  say the youngest “sibling” (sibling). Your “siblings” are your brothers and si sters.  

Now, in many families, the baby of the family is “s poiled.” “To be spoiled” (spoiled) is to get whatever you want and often to not behave very well, especially if you’re a child. If parents spoil thei r children, the children get whatever they want, and because of that, they often  don’t behave or act like they should. They don’t act politely. Well, I was not sp oiled even though I was the youngest, or baby of the family.  

Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself  

 “That’s right,” I say, “I’m part of a big family, p robably the biggest family in the neighborhood.” A “neighborhood” is an area inside o f the city where you live. Most cities have several neighborhoods or areas. I say that “I had a happy childhood.” Your “childhood” (childhood) refers to the period during which you were growing up, from the time you were a baby unti l you became an adult or perhaps a teenager – 13, 14, and so forth. That’s y our “childhood.” Some people have a happy childhood. Some people have a sad chil dhood.  

I say that my childhood was happy “for the most par t.” That expression “for the most part” means mainly or in most cases – or in th is case, perhaps the majority of the time. Sometimes, of course, my childhood was  not happy, but usually it was. I explain that my mother and father “did not h ave a lot of money” – they were not rich – “but they both worked hard,” meanin g they worked a lot. Because they worked a lot, they had enough money to give us  what we needed as children. Therefore, or because of that, we never, I say, “felt deprived” (deprived). “To feel deprived” means to not have everything you  need to be happy, not have the things that you want to have in order to have a  good life.  

I say that “I wasn’t much interested in sports.” I didn’t like playing sports, but my brothers did. I instead “enjoyed reading and listen ing to music while growing up.” I say that “I went to grade school near my house.” “Grade (grade) school” is also called, in the U.S., “elementary school.” It’s the first five to eight years of a child’s education, depending on the school. Sometimes these  are also called, in certain areas, “grammar school,” although that isn’t a term  as commonly used now as it was, say, 50 years ago. We usually refer to grade s chools as elementary schools, nowadays.  

I then went on to high school, which in the U.S. is  normally grades 9 through 12, though it might be grades 10 through 12 depending o n the school system. My high school was grades 9 through 12. “After graduat ing” – that is, after completing high school – “I went on to the Universi ty of Minnesota for my bachelor’s degree.” “To go on to” means to move to the next level – in this case, the next level of my education, which was college o r the university. I went to the University of Minnesota for my “bachelor’s (bachelo r’s) degree (degree).” A “degree” is a certificate or recognition of study a t a certain school. A “bachelor’s degree” is given after typically four years of stud y at a college or university.  

I say that, “It took me a while” – that is, a long time – “to learn the ropes (ropes) at the university.” The expression “to learn the ro pes” is an idiom meaning to learn how things are done in a certain group or org anization, or to learn how to  

Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself  

do a certain kind of job. In this case, I was learn ing how things worked at the university. I say that “I finally graduated,” or co mpleted my studies, “about six years later.” That is, instead of taking the normal  four years at university, I took six years because, well, I’m just not very smart.  

I then say, “Better late than never.” The expressio n “Better late than never” means it is better to do something, even if you don ’t do it quickly, as long as you are able to complete it or finish it. So, my father  used to say, “Better late than never” about my university studies because it took me so long to finish, but I did in fact finish. Well, at least my bachelor’s degree . “I then went to Mexico for a couple of years to teach English and to study Spani sh.”  

“When I returned, I decided to become a teacher, so  I went back to school” – that is, I returned to the university – “to get my maste r’s degree.” A “master’s (master’s) degree” is a one, sometimes two-year deg ree that is given for studying about a certain topic after you complete your bache lor’s, or typically four-year, degree. A “bachelor’s degree” is sometimes called a n “undergraduate degree,” and a “master’s degree” is a graduate degree.  

There are actually two graduate degrees that are co mmon. One is a “master’s degree,” done immediately after or at least at some  point after finishing your bachelor’s degree. There’s also a “doctoral” or “do ctorate degree.” That takes longer. There are many different kinds of graduate degrees, however, but “master’s” and “doctorate,” which we also call a “P h.D.,” are the most common graduate degrees. 

“After teaching high school,” I say, “I was offered  a job in California,” which is true, “and I moved here in 1991. After working here  for a few years, I went back to school again to get my Ph.D.” A “Ph.D.,” as I me ntioned, is a graduate degree. It usually takes somewhere between four and seven y ears to complete. After you get your Ph.D., you can be called “Doctor.” “I star ted becoming a professional student,” I say.  

I then finish by saying that “I completed my Ph.D. in four years and then taught at the university for several years.” I taught at a co uple of different colleges after I got my Ph.D. “Now I work at a small research organi zation.” “Research” (research) is used to describe efforts to learn mor e about something, either in a scientific or other disciplined way. I work at a re search organization here in Los Angeles.  

Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself  

I say, “I am happily married.” “To be married” (mar ried) means to have a husband or a wife. “I am happily married, and I still enjoy  reading and listening to music, as well as, of course, making these ESLPod.com less ons.” 

Now let’s listen to the story again, this time at a  normal speed. 

[start of story] 

Let me tell you a little about myself.  

I was born and raised in Minnesota and I’m a native  of the city of Saint Paul. I grew up there with my parents and my eight brothers  and two sisters. I’m the eleventh child so you could say I’m the baby of the  family, but I swear I wasn’t spoiled.  

That’s right, I’m part of a big family, probably th e biggest family in the neighborhood, perhaps the biggest family in the sta te! 

I had a happy childhood, for the most part. My fath er and mother didn’t have a lot of money, but because they both worked hard, we nev er felt deprived. 

I wasn’t much interested in sports, like my brother s were. I enjoyed reading and listening to music while growing up. I went to grad e school near my house, and then to high school about two miles away from our h ome. 

After graduating from high school, I went on to the  University of Minnesota for my bachelor’s degree. It took me a while to learn the ropes at the university, but I finally graduated about six years later. Better lat e than never, as my father used to say.  

I then went to Mexico for a couple of years to teac h English and to study Spanish. When I returned, I decided to become a tea cher, so I went back to school to get my master’s degree. After teaching hi gh school for a few years, I was offered a job in California, so I moved to Los Angeles in 1991. After working here for a few years, I went back to school (again! ) to get my Ph.D. I was starting to become a professional student.  

Well, I completed my Ph.D. in four years and then t aught at the university for several years. Now I work at a small research organ ization here in Los Angeles. I am happily married, and I still enjoy reading and l istening to music, and of course, creating ESLPod.com lessons.  

Daily English 1 – Introducing Yourself  

 [end of story] 

