# Going to the Drugstore

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 13: Going to the Drugstore. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 13. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

On this podcast, we’re going to go to the pharmacy or drugstore. Let’s get started! > I stopped by the drugstore last night on my way bac k home from work. I had a few toiletries to pick up, as well as my prescripti on. Fortunately, the chain pharmacy where I go has a little bit of e verything: food, greeting cards, magazines – it’s almost as big as a regular superma rket.  
> To begin with, I needed to get some medications for  my allergies. I've got hay fever, so I'm sneezing up a storm every morning whe n I wake up. While I was at it, I also got some antacids and some Band-Aids. No w it was time to pick up my refill. 
> I stood in line for a few minutes before being wait ed on. Since it was not a new prescription, the pharmacist didn't have to do a co nsultation with me. I just gave the clerk my insurance card and she rang up the sal e. Fortunately, I have a low co-pay, so my HMO foots most of the bill.

Now let’s talk about some of the words we used in o ur discussion of going to the drugstore. Let’s start with that term “drugstore.” A “drugstore” is the same as a “pharmacy.” We could say that the word “drugstore” is synonymous with pharmacy. It means the same thing. 

I said that I “stopped by” the drugstore last night . “To stop by” means that you are going somewhere, but before you go to that place, y ou go somewhere else first. For example, I was going to my friend’s house over in Beverly Hills, and, on my way there, I stopped by a store in West Los Angeles  to pick up a bottle of wine. “To stop by somewhere, then, means to go somewhere before you go  

somewhere else. It implies that you may or may not have been planning on doing that.  

I said that I was coming back from work. I said, “I  was on my way home.” “To be on your way” means to be going in that direction. I ’m on my way to the store, for example. Now, normally we use the preposition “to” after the phrase “on your way,” but the word “home” is an exception. There’s no “to.” You just say, “I was on my way home.” For most other places, however, yo u have to add a “to” after the phrase “on my way,” such as “I am on my way to the hospital” or “I am on my way to buy a nice big hamburger.” Oh, that sounds g ood! 

I said that I had to pick up some “toiletries.” “To iletries” (toiletries) refers to anything that you would use in your bathroom. The w ord “toilet” and “bathroom” are often used to mean the same thing in the United  States. Technically, of course, “toilet” is just the thing you use to do, w ell, what you normally do in a restroom or bathroom. 

I said I had to “pick up” some toiletries. “To pick  up” means to buy, to obtain, to get. It’s a two-word phrasal verb – “to pick up.” O ne of the things I had to get was my “prescription.” A “prescription” (prescription) is what the doctor gives you for some illness or some sickness. A prescription drug is something that you can only get with the doctor’s note, and that note is c alled a “prescription.” But we often use the term prescription to indicate both th e drug as well as the note or piece of paper the doctor has to sign, or put his s ignature on. 

I said that the pharmacy I went to was a “chain pha rmacy.” When we talk about a “chain (chain) store,” we mean that there is more t han one of these stores. There’s more than one “branch” (branch). So McDonal d’s is a “chain’ restaurant, because there are thousands of branches, or in this  case, restaurants, that are called McDonald’s. They all belong to the same comp any or group of owners.  

Here in Southern California, there are many chain g rocery stores. You can also have chain bookstores or a chain shoe store, or for  any kind of business that sells things. You can even have a chain service bus iness, such as a place that cleans clothes or cuts your hair. 

I said that the pharmacy had a little bit of everyt hing, including “greeting cards.” “Greeting cards” is a general term that means any s ort of card that you would buy for someone to give them for some special reason, s ome special occasion. It could be a birthday card, a Christmas card, an anni versary card, or any type of special event card. A greeting card could also be f or someone you love. I used to give my wife greeting cards all the time to say how  much I love her. I still do,  

being the good husband that I am, right? Anyway, al l of these are called “greeting cards.” 

But I didn’t go to the drugstore to buy greeting ca rds. I went to there to get some “medications.” The term “medications” (medications)  simply refers a type of drug. There are two basic kinds of medication you can buy  in a drugstore or pharmacy. There are prescription medications, which require p ermission from your doctor, and there are “over-the-counter” medications. “Over -the-counter medications” are medications or drugs that you can buy that you do n ot need a doctor’s prescription for. Examples of over-the-counter drug s include cold medicines, cough medicine, medicine for your stomach, and cert ain pain killers, things you take for when you have a headache. Sometimes we cal l these by their initials, “OTC,” meaning “over-the-counter.” 

I said that I needed to get some medications for my  “allergies.” “Allergies” (allergies) are when your body reacts to different things it eats or smells or touches. It’s a negative reaction. You can have an allergy to animals, like dogs or cats. I, for example, have a cat allergy. So, whene ver I’m close to a cat, I sneeze - “Achoo!” that’s a sneeze. That’s an allergy or an  “allergic reaction.” You can have other kinds of allergic reactions. Some proble m may appear on your skin. You may have red bumps on your skin, red marks on y our skin. That might also be a reaction to something that you ate or smelled or touched. You can have an allergy to certain kinds of plants. You can have al lergies to different foods. I also have an allergy to crab and lobster, which is too b ad, because I used to love eating that kind of food but I can’t anymore. I dev eloped an allergy as an adult.  

Another type of allergy is called “hay fever.” “Hay  (hay) fever” is an allergy to different plants and, well, I have that, too. My wi fe thinks I have an allergy to work as well. That’s probably true. 

Well, when I have hay fever, I sneeze. I said I was  “sneezing up a storm.” “To sneeze up a storm” means to sneeze a lot. A “storm”  is normally when you have a lot of rain or a lot of wind. So, “to sneeze up a  storm” is a metaphor, an expression that we use comparing one thing to anoth er. 

I said that “While I was at it, I also got some ant acids and some Band-Aids.” This expression “while I was at it” means since I was do ing something at the same time, that was in the same place, or that was someh ow similar, I did something else. For example, you may say, “Could you go to th e store and buy me some milk? And while you’re at it, could you also get me  some cereal for breakfast?” So “while you’re at it” means “while you’re also do ing something else, please do this as well.”   

 I said that, “While I was at it, I also got some An tacids.” “Antacids” (antacids) are to help your stomach when you are not feeling well when you eat something that makes your stomach feel weird, feel funny, or makes  your stomach hurt. You could take an antacid. I also mentioned buying “Ban d-Aids.” “Band-Aids” is technically a brand of bandages in the United State s. A “brand” (brand) means one particular company owns and uses the rights to that name. “Apple,” for example, is a brand of computers. “Coca-Cola” is a brand of soda pop.  

There is a brand of bandages is called “Band-Aids.”  But they’re so popular that now, many of us call almost all bandages “Band-Aids ,” even when they’re made by a different company. There are different compani es that make bandages. Bandages are things you would put on your skin. For  example, if you cut yourself, you would put a bandage or a Band-Aid on to protect the area where you cut your skin. 

I said I had to pick up a “refill.” A “refill” (ref ill) is a prescription that the doctor says you can get more than once or a drug that you can take multiple times – many times. So, for example, I have a prescription for my allergies, and I have five “refills.” That means I can go back to the pha rmacy after I wait a few weeks, usually, and get a bottle of the allergy medicine. I can do that five times. I have five refills. After that, I have to go back to the doctor to get another prescription to get more drugs. So, “to refill a prescription” mean s to get more of a drug that you have already taken before.  

I said I stood in line for a few minutes before bei ng “waited on.” That expression “to stand in line” means to be in line. “To be wait ed on” is an expression you often hear in a restaurant, but we also use the phr ase for any sort of service situation, any place where someone is going to help  you, such as in a store or at the post office.  

I said that the pharmacist didn’t have to do a cons ultation with me. A “pharmacist“ is the person who, of course works at a pharmacy. We used to have a term, “druggist” (druggist), to refer to someone who worked at a drugstore, but now, you normally just hear the word “pharmacist.” To become a pharmacist, you have to go to a special kind of medical school call ed a “pharmacy school” where you will get a degree in pharmacy. You need that to  dispense drugs. “To dispense” (dispense) means to give out, usually to give out a drug or some kind of medicine. When you have a new prescription, when  you’re using a drug for the first time, the pharmacist will have “consultation”  with you. A “consultation” just means that they tell you what the drug is, what you  should use it for, and how  

you should use it. In our story, I am not picking u p a new prescription drug. I’m picking up a refill so I don’t need a consultation.   

I said that “I gave the clerk my insurance card and  she rang up the sale.” The term “clerk” means anyone who works at a store, usu ally the person who takes your money, the person who, as I say in the story, “rings up” your sale. “To ring up a sale” means to process the sale, to take your money, to put the money into what’s called a “cash register,” which is the place  where the store keeps its money. The clerk will also give you a receipt for y our purchase, for the things that you bought, usually a little piece of paper, althou gh nowadays, some stores say they can email you your receipt. I’ve had that happ en, at least once or twice. 

I also said that I had a “low co-pay.” “Co-pay” sta nds for “co-payment.” When you have medical insurance in the United States, usuall y you have to pay a small amount of money every time you go to the doctor and  every time you pick up a prescription. It’s not the same amount you would pa y if you did not have insurance. It’s always less than that. The insuranc e company pays for most of the cost of the drug or most of the cost of the doc tor’s visit. But you usually have to pay maybe five, ten, perhaps twenty dollars of t he cost of the drug or of the visit. That’s called a “co-pay.”  

I said that “My HMO foots most of the bill.” “HMO” stands for “Health Maintenance Organization.” In the United States, an  “HMO” is a private company that provides you, that gives you, medical service.  They have doctors, they have hospitals, they have pharmacies, and you buy insura nce so that you can be a member of the “HMO.” Not everyone is a member of an  “HMO.” Many people in the United States can’t afford, do not have money f or, the private insurance, so they have to go to a public clinic or hospital.  

I said that my HMO “foots most of the bill.” “To fo ot (foot) the bill” means to pay for, to take care of the expense or the cost. “Who’ s going to foot the bill for tonight’s dinner?” That means “Who’s going to pay f or tonight’s dinner?” It’s an informal expression. (And, no, I’m not going to foo t the bill for dinner tonight!) 

Now let’s listen to the story this time at a normal  speed. 

[start of story] 

I stopped by the drugstore last night on my way bac k home from work. I had a few toiletries to pick up, as well as my prescripti on. Fortunately, the chain pharmacy where I go has a little bit of e verything: food, greeting cards, magazines – it’s almost as big as a regular superma rket.   

 To begin with, I needed to get some medications for  my allergies. I've got hay fever, so I'm sneezing up a storm every morning whe n I wake up. While I was at it, I also got some antacids and some Band-Aids. No w it was time for me to pick up my refill. 

I stood in line for a few minutes before being wait ed on. Since it was not a new prescription, the pharmacist didn't have to do a co nsultation with me. I just gave the clerk my insurance card and she rang up the sal e. Fortunately, I have a low co-pay, so my HMO foots most of the bill. 

[end of story] 

Our scriptwriter writes about a little bit of every thing. Thank you for that, Dr. Lucy Tse. 

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st. 

ESL Podcast is produced by the Center for Education al Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2006 .

