# Opening a Bank Account

S

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 59 – Opening a Bank Account.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 59. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss opening a b ank account. Let's get started. > I decided to switch banks recently, and after looki ng at my options, I went for Mar Vista National Bank. I drove over to the bank, park ed next to the drive-through teller lanes, and walked inside.
> I made my way to the new accounts desk and was gree ted by John, one of the customer service representatives there. I told him I wanted to open a new checking and savings account. He said he’d be happy  to help me, and gave me a form to fill out with my personal information, incl uding place of employment, home address, and so forth. I had to show him a gov ernment-issued ID and give him my Social Security number.
> John asked if I wanted an interest-bearing account with overdraft protection. Technically, he said, the savings account is a mone y market where I can earn interest daily. The checking was free if I had dire ct deposit, and my checks were also free.
> I signed on the dotted line, gave him the minimum d eposit to open the account, and thanked him for his help. I'm glad I got that o ut of the way. Now all I need to do is make some money to put into my accounts!

Today we opened a bank account. An “account” is an agreement for someone to hold your money for you, and in a “bank account,” t he bank takes your money and holds it for you. I said that we “opened” a ban k account. That is, we start a bank account or we start an agreement with the bank  so that they will give us . . . we can give them our money.

I said, “I decided to switch banks recently.” “To s witch” means to change – to change one thing for another. “I’m going to switch pens; I don’t like the one I’m using,” meaning I’m not going to use this one and I ’m going to use another one. We sometimes use the expression “to switch places.”  “To switch places” means you go where I am and I go where you are, if we wer e sitting at a table, for example.

I said that I looked at my “options” – or my choice s – and I “went for” the Mar Vista National Bank. “To go for” something here mea ns to decide in favor of – to decide to select or choose that one. “I went for the chicken at the restaurant” means I decided to eat the chicken and not the beef . I said, “I drove over to the bank.” Again, this is one of the many cases where w e have a preposition after a verb, using it here to have a little more emphasis.  “I drove to the bank,” “I drove over to the bank” – they’re very similar in meaning .

I said I parked “next to the drive-through teller l anes.” A “teller” is the person, the clerk, that works at a bank and the one that you ta lk to – to give your money or to take your money from. A “drive-through teller” is w hen you can drive in your car up to a window and talk to a person without getting  out of your car. Nowadays, in most banks they don’t have drive-through tellers; t hey have drive-through ATM machines – Automatic Teller Machines – instead of h uman beings.

I said I “made my way” to the new accounts desk and  was greeted by John. “To make your way” somewhere means to find your way – t o find the path or the route to something. “Did you make your way home las t night okay in the storm?” The idea is that there was some difficulty in findi ng, or in getting to, a certain place. “He made his way to the restaurant” – he got  lost but he finally got there.

There are two basic kinds of accounts you can open in a bank. A “savings account” is when you give the bank your money and i t usually gives you interest on your money. That is to say, it pays you a certai n percentage for keeping your money with them. Nowadays, in the United States, it ’s probably 1 or 2 percent – not very much.

A “checking account” is where you give the bank you r money but you can get it back by writing a “check” – a piece of paper with y our name on it and signature. It’s sort of like a . . . a check is sort of like a n “I.O.U” – means “I owe you.” The letters (IOU) stand for a note or a piece of paper that says that I will pay you this amount. Well, a checking account can also be an acc ount where you earn interest. Notice the use of the verb “earn” here. “ To earn (earn) interest” is the verb we use meaning to get interest. So, there are these two kinds of accounts.

And I said that John gave me a “form to fill out. A  “form” is a piece of paper that asks for certain information. The verb we almost al ways use with “form” is “fill out.” You have to fill out your customs form when y ou come to the United States. You have to fill out a form in order to get a loan from the bank. All of these are uses of “to fill out a form” – expression. I also s aid that I had to put down my “place of employment.” That, of course, is where I work – my home address and so forth. The expression “and so forth” means “etc. ” It means “and other things.”

I said I had to give the customer service represent ative a “government-issued I.D.” An “I.D.” is an identification. Your driver’s  license with your picture and your name and your address – that’s an I.D. A “governmen t-issued” . . . “to issue” means to give, so a “government-issued I.D.” is one  that the government gives you – usually a driver’s license or a passport.

In the United States, you may know that we have a r etirement – a government retirement – program when you turn 65. When you are  65 years old or so, you can get money from the government depending on how much Social Security taxes you pay. So, Social Security is our federal o r national retirement system – not a very good system, in my opinion, but that’s a nother question. Everyone, or almost everyone, who lives in the United States has  a Social Security number, and that’s a nine-digit number. So, it’s: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Those numbers are given to you, and they are used for identification.  It’s sort of like a national identification number that everyone has.

John asked me if I wanted an “interest bearing acco unt with overdraft protection.” An “interest bearing” (bearing) . . . if an account  is “interest bearing,” that just means it earns or gets interest; you get money for keeping your money in that account. An “overdraft” is when you write a check f or more than what you have in your bank account. The noun we used for that is an “overdraft,” all one word (overdraft).

“Overdraft protection” is a service that many banks  offer, that if you write a check for too much money – by mistake, we hope – the bank  will loan you the money that you don’t have in your account in order to “ca sh the check,” or to give people money for the check that you wrote. That’s called “ cashing a check.” John explained to me that my savings account was actuall y a “money market account,” and a “money market” is a type of account that earn s a little bit more interest than the other regular savings account.

Most banks in the United States will give you “free  checking” – meaning they won’t charge you any money for having a checking ac count – if you have “direct deposit.” “Direct deposit” means that your “employe r,” the company you work for,

they will automatically electronically put money – your money – into your account every two weeks, or every month, or however often y ou get paid. So, you don’t get a check that you have to take to the bank. They  automatically electronically put it in our account. This is called “direct depos it.” And if you have direct deposit in a bank account, many banks will not charge you a  fee for the account.

I said that I “signed on the dotted line” and gave John the “minimum deposit.” “To sign on the dotted line” means that we sign an offi cial form – we sign a document of some sort. Traditionally, the place where you pu t your signature . . . the line was often dotted rather than being a straight line,  and that’s where the expression comes from. But it just means to sign so mething, to put your signature on something. A “minimum deposit” is the minimum or least amount of money that I can open an account with.

And finally, I said that I was glad I “got that out  of the way.” “To get something out of the way” means that you have something you have to do – you probably don’t want to do it, but you do it so that you don’t have  to worry about it anymore. So, for example, I need to clean the house before my wi fe gets home. I decide I’m going to clean the kitchen and “get that out of the  way” first, because it’s the hardest thing to do.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

I decided to switch banks recently, and after looki ng at my options, I went for Mar Vista National Bank. I drove over to the bank, park ed next to the drive-through teller lanes, and walked inside.

I made my way to the new accounts desk and was gree ted by John, one of the customer service representatives there. I told him I wanted to open a new checking and savings account. He said he’d be happy  to help me, and gave me a form to fill out with my personal information, incl uding place of employment, home address, and so forth. I had to show him a gov ernment-issued ID and give him my Social Security number.

John asked if I wanted an interest-bearing account with overdraft protection. Technically, he said, the savings account is a mone y market where I can earn interest daily. The checking was free if I had dire ct deposit, and my checks were also free.

I signed on the dotted line, gave him the minimum d eposit to open the account, and thanked him for his help. I'm glad I got that o ut of the way. Now all I need to do is make some money to put into my accounts!

[end of story]

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.





