# Missing Person, Part 4: ¡§Meeting at the Caf?.¡¨

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 64 – Missing Person , Part 4: “Meeting at the Café.”

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 64. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode is the fourth in our 12-part special s eries: Missing Person , a murder mystery. In our previous episode, Dr. Reeves and his student, Anne Prado, were in the bathroom of Anne’s sister, Sarah. Sarah and her husband, Bill, are missing. It turned out that the noise they heard in  the bathroom was just a little cat. So, they looked around the apartment and tried  to find something that would tell them what happened to Sarah and Bill.

Dr. Reeves noticed that there were some pills on the table next to their bed in the master bedroom. Those pills, according to Anne, wer e for Bill’s leg, which he had hurt playing football in college. Dr. Reeves told A nne that they should go to the police, but Anne said the police wouldn’t help. The n, at the end of the episode, Anne received a telephone call. When Anne got off the phone, her face was very sad, and she said, “Something terrible has happened !”

Now, we continue with part 4 of Missing Person : “Meeting at the Café.” > “We have to go, Dr. Reeves!” Anne said excitedly. “ That was Bill on the phone. He’s at a restaurant called Café Pico. Sarah’s been  kidnapped!”
> “Kidnapped? Are you sure?” I asked, somewhat incred ulously.
> “I’m sure. Someone has taken Sarah,” Anne replied. “Bill said that a man is holding her, and he will kill her if we don’t give him the ransom he’s demanding.” Anne was pulling me to the door of the apartment. “ Come on! Bill said he will explain at the restaurant.”
> I closed the door to the apartment and followed Ann e down the stairs and to my car. The weather was typical for Los Angeles: sunny , 75 degrees, with brown smog covering the city. L.A. is a city of dreams. B ut for some people, it’s a city of nightmares.
> Our episode begins with Anne trying to get Dr. Reev es out of the apartment as soon as possible in order to meet Bill at a café. B ill had called Anne and told her to come to a café to meet with him. Anne says to Dr . Reeves, “That was Bill on the phone.” The expression “that was” – and someone ’s name – “on the phone” means that is the person who just called. Bill told  Anne that Sarah had been “kidnapped.” “To kidnap” (kidnap) someone means tha t you take someone away and you ask for money in exchange for the person be ing returned unharmed, or safe.

“Are you sure?” Dr. Reeves says, “somewhat incredul ously.” “To be incredulous” is to doubt what another person is saying, to think  that what someone else is saying is probably not true. The adverb “incredulou sly” is how he asks the question – with some doubt. But Anne assures Dr. Re eves that Bill’s story is true.

She tells him that Bill said that a man would kill her sister, Sarah, if they didn’t give him the ransom he was demanding. “Ransom” (ran som) is the word for the money you give to someone who is a kidnapper, someo ne who kidnaps. The money that you pay is called “ransom,” and is usual ly used with the verb “to demand.” “To demand” is to say “You must do this” –  it’s like an order. Kidnappers demand a ransom.

Anne says to Dr. Reeves, “Come on!” The expression “Come on!” in this case means “Hurry up, follow me, come with me.” We also sometimes use that expression when we don’t believe something. Someone  tells us something that we don’t think is true, and we say, “Oh, come on,” meaning “That can’t be true. I don’t believe you.” It’s an informal phrase, someth ing you would say to a family member or a friend.

As they are walking to his car, Dr. Reeves says tha t it’s a typical day in Los Angeles: “sunny, 75 degrees, with brown smog coveri ng the city.” “Smog” (smog) is a word that comes from the words “smoke” and “fo g.” It generally means

pollution, which is why it’s brown, and this smog is “covering the city,” meaning it’s all over the city. Dr. Reeves says, “L.A. is a  city of dreams. But for some people, it’s a city of nightmares.” A “nightmare” ( nightmare) is a bad dream.

Anne and Dr. Reeves drive quickly down Robertson Av enue, which is a big street here in Los Angeles, and they try not to cause a “p ileup.” A “pileup” (pileup) is when a bunch of cars get into an accident. When we say, “There’s a pileup on the freeway,” we mean that several cars are involve d in a single accident. Dr. Reeves says that Anne looked “justifiably nervous.”  “Justifiably” is another adverb. The adjective “justifiable” (justifiable) m eans that it makes sense, that there is a good reason for something to happen. The  verb “to justify” means to give an explanation or to give a reason. So, “justi fiably,” as an adverb, means that it makes sense – that there is good reason for  her to be nervous.

Dr. Reeves says, “You could see it in her eyes.” In  this case, “to see it” means to notice something and to know that it’s true. Dr. Re eves can tell that Anne is nervous by looking in her eyes – he can see it in h er eyes. When Dr. Reeves and Anne arrive at the café, Anne introduces Dr. Reeves  to Bill. Dr. Reeves says, “It’s good to meet you,” which is a common expression whe n you’re first meeting someone: “It’s good to meet you” or “It’s nice to m eet you.” Bill responds by saying, “I’m glad to meet you, too.”

They sit down. Dr. Reeves says, “The waitress came over to take our order,” meaning she asked them what they were going to drin k or eat. Dr. Reeves orders a glass of iced tea and says, “I’m a bit of a caffe ine addict, truth be told.” “Caffeine” (caffeine) is something that is in coffe e and tea and some sodas. It’s a drug that makes you more awake and sometimes a litt le nervous.

An “addict” (addict) is someone who is addicted. the verb is “to be addicted,” and it means that your body needs a drug so much that y ou cannot live without it, the way some people become addicted to heroin or cocain e. Dr. Reeves isn’t actually addicted to caffeine, but he uses the term  “addict” because some people seem like they are addicted to caffeine. He also us es the expression “truth be told.” It’s somewhat of an old-fashioned expression . “Well, truth be told, I don’t really want to go to the movie.” It is used when yo u are being very honest – more honest than usual – with someone.

Anne asks Bill what happened to Sarah, and she asks  this question “impatiently” –another adverb. “To be impatient” (impatient) mean s that you can’t wait; you want to find out right away or do something right a way. And “impatiently,” as an adverb, is how she asks this question. Bill says th at a strange man had come to their door, and when Bill opened the door, “before I knew what was happening” –

before he could figure out what was going on – “he had a gun in my face and was shouting obscenities at me.” An “obscenity” (ob scenity) is a vulgar or bad word, a swear word – something that you would not s ay to someone you liked. This strange man was shouting obscenities at Bill.

Dr. Reeves asks Bill what this man looked like, and  Bill answers, “He was tall and muscular.” “Muscular” comes from the word “muscle,”  and means someone who has a lot of muscles. I’m not particularly muscular , for example. Bill says that the man was wearing a “ski mask,” and you’ll remember that a “ski mask” is a hat that covers your whole face so people can’t see who  you are. It is used by people to keep warm when they ski. He says that he thought  the man had a mustache, but “It all happened so fast.” The expression “it a ll happened so fast” means something took place, but you didn’t really have ti me to figure out what was going on.

Bill explains that the kidnapper took him and Sarah  and put them in a car and put a small towel around their eyes. When there is some thing around your eyes like that, we call that a “blindfold” (blindfold), all o ne word. If you have a blindfold over your eyes, you can’t see anything. Bill says they w ere then driven to another place and put into a small “dingy” room. The adject ive “dingy” (dingy) means something that is very dirty, and that has been dir ty for a long time. So, a “dingy room” would not be a very nice place.

Finally, Bill says that this morning, the kidnapper s had “let him go,” meaning they let him leave, and told him that if he wanted Sarah  to be free, he had to pay a ransom of $500,000.

On the next episode of Missing Person , we’ll learn more about the ransom demand made by the kidnappers.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

“We have to go, Dr. Reeves!” Anne said excitedly. “ That was Bill on the phone. He’s at a restaurant called Café Pico. Sarah’s been  kidnapped!”

“Kidnapped? Are you sure?” I asked, somewhat incred ulously.

“I’m sure. Someone has taken Sarah,” Anne replied. “Bill said that a man is holding her, and he will kill her if we don’t give him the ransom he’s demanding.”

Anne was pulling me to the door of the apartment. “ Come on! Bill said he will explain at the restaurant.”

I closed the door to the apartment and followed Ann e down the stairs and to my car. The weather was typical for Los Angeles: sunny , 75 degrees, with brown smog covering the city. L.A. is a city of dreams. B ut for some people, it’s a city of nightmares.

Anne and I drove down Robertson Boulevard in my old  red Mustang, going around cars as fast as we could without causing a p ileup.

“Where is this café again?” I asked her.

“On Robertson and Pico, next to a bookstore,” Anne answered. She was justifiably nervous. You could see it in her eyes.

Arriving a few minutes later, we found a place to p ark in front of the bookstore and walked into the café. Bill was there waiting for us.

“Bill! Oh my God, Bill, what happened?” Anne hugged  Bill, who looked tired and worried.

“Oh, this is my friend, Dr. Darren Reeves.” Anne sa id. “Dr. Reeves, this is Bill. Dr. Reeves is my professor at USC. But he’s also a very  good detective. When I found out that you and Sarah were missing, I went to him for help.”

“It’s good to meet you, Bill,” I said.

“Um, yeah, I’m glad to meet you, too,” Bill said.

Bill, Anne, and I sat down at a table in front of the café. The waitress came to take our order. I asked for a glass of iced tea. I’ m a bit of a caffeine addict, truth be told.

“Bill, tell us what happened to Sarah. Is she okay? ” Anne asked impatiently.

“Sarah is fine now,” Bill said. “But for a while, I  thought both of us would be killed. Two days ago, a strange man knocked on our door at the apartment. I opened the door, and before I knew what was happening, he had a gun in my face and was shouting obscenities at me.”

“What did he look like?” I asked.

 “He was tall and muscular,” said Bill, “but he wore  a ski mask, so I couldn’t see his face very well. He had a mustache, I think. It all happened so fast.”

“That’s okay. Go on,” I said.

“Well, the man took Sarah and me and put us in a ca r. He put a small towel around our eyes, tied our legs and hands together, and then drove us to another place. We were forced out of the car and into a sma ll, dingy room.

“We were given food twice a day. I’m not sure how m any kidnappers there were holding us there. I heard several voices outside the door, maybe three or four, I’m not sure. Finally this morning, about an hour a go, I was let go and given a message: If I want Sarah to be set free, I have to pay a ransom of $500,000.”

[end of story]

In the next episode of Missing Person , we’ll learn more about the ransom demand made by the kidnappers. Be sure to come back  for part 5: “No Police.”

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

