# Cashing a Check

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 28 – Cashing a Check.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 28. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss cashing a c heck. Let's get started. > The local branch of my bank is located just a few b locks from where I live. It's very convenient, since it has four ATMs open 24/7. Today I had to go make a deposit, but because I wanted to cash a check as we ll, I needed to go inside to talk to a teller.
> Inside the bank, I got in line for the tellers. All  of the tellers are behind a large piece of bulletproof glass, so you have to speak up  when you are talking to them. When I got to the head of the line, the cashier ask ed, "How may I help you?" I said, "I'd like to deposit this payroll check into my checking account and cash this cashier's check." "Certainly," she said, "just endo rse the back of both checks and put them in the tray." I said, "Sure. And can I get  that in small bills – tens and twenties?"
> I waited for her to process my checks. Then she sai d, "Here you are," and counted out the cash and put it in an envelope. "Th ank you," I said, and walked away. Now that I have some money burning a hole in my pocket, I guess I’d better spend it!

Today we talked about going to the bank. I started by talking about “the local branch of my bank.” A “branch” (branch) of a bank o r a “branch” of any business is an office of that bank or an office of that busi ness. Big banks have many branches in different parts of the city and in diff erent parts of the country. I said my local branch is located “just a few blocks from where I live.” A “block” (block) is the distance between two streets.

I mentioned that my local bank has “four ATMs.” “AT M” stands for “automatic teller machine.” A “teller” (teller) is the person who works at the bank whom you

talk to about cashing a check or making a deposit o r getting money. An “automatic (automatic) teller machine” is a machine  that you can use to get money out of your bank account. You put in your car d and enter your PIN – “PIN” (PIN) stands for “personal identification number,” and is like a secret code. An ATM is usually open “24/7.” The expression “24/7” i s written (24/7). “24/7” means 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So, if a busines s is open 24/7, it is always open; it is never closed.

I said that I had to go to the bank to “make a depo sit.” A “deposit” (deposit) is money that you put into your bank account to save. That’s called a deposit. The opposite is called a “withdrawal.” “To withdraw (wi thdraw) money” means to take money out of your bank account. I want to withdraw some money; I want to make a withdrawal.

I needed to “cash a check.” “To cash a check” means  to go to a bank, or sometimes to a store, and give them a “check,” a pi ece of paper with your name and account number on it. You sign the check and th ey give you cash back. In the United States, there are many small businesses that are not banks that will cash your check. But they will charge you money for  that service, and they are used primarily by people who do not have bank accou nts.

A “teller,” as I mentioned, is the person who works  in the bank and helps you with your deposits and withdrawals. Once inside the bank , “I got in line for the tellers.” “To get in line” means to stand in line. In many ba nks in the United States, the tellers are behind a large piece of “bulletproof gl ass.” You know what glass is, like a glass window. Well, “bulletproof (bulletproo f) glass” is like a very thick window that we use for safety. If someone were to f ire a gun in order to shoot the teller and steal the money, the glass would stop the bullet. That’s bulletproof glass. Many banks, especially here in Los Angeles, have bulletproof glass, and the tellers work behind the glass.

You and the teller are on different sides of the bu lletproof glass, which is why you sometimes have to “speak up.” “To speak up” means t o talk louder. If we say, “I need you to speak up,” we mean, “I need you to talk  louder.” “To speak up” can also mean simply to say something. For example, “If  you want to go to the store, speak up” means “If you want to go to the store, te ll me.” It doesn’t mean to talk louder. It just means to tell me or to let me know.

When I got to the cashier – in a bank, “cashier” (c ashier) is another word for “teller” – she asked, “How may I help you?” This is  a very common thing to say when someone first talks to you in a store, for exa mple. A person working for the store will often say, “How may I help you?” I respo nded by saying that I needed

to deposit a “payroll check.” A “payroll (payroll) check” is a check that you get from your employer for doing your job, for working.  I have a very small payroll check, for example.

I wanted to deposit my payroll check into my “check ing account.” There are two main kinds of accounts or places where you can stor e your money in a bank. One is a “checking account.” That’s an account that  you can write checks from. The other is a “savings account,” which is an accou nt that you get your money out not by writing a check, but by actually going t o the bank.

Nowadays, we also have other ways of saving or stor ing money. There are “certificates of deposit,” also known as “CDs.” A “ certificate (certificate) of deposit” is an account where you can keep your mone y for a certain amount of time – six months or nine months or a year – and the bank gives you extra interest, extra money, for leaving it in the certif icate of deposit. You promise not to take the money out before the end of the six mon ths or nine months or year, but if you do take it out early, you get a “penalty ” or a “fine,” which means you have to pay money for taking the money out early.

I said that I needed to “cash a cashier’s check.” T here are two types of checks: a “cashier’s check” and a “personal check.” A “cashie r’s (cashier’s) check” is a check that has the bank’s name on it instead of you r name. A “personal (personal) check” has your name on it, and the mone y comes right out of your account. Many people will accept only cashier’s che cks for large amounts of money, because the bank is guaranteeing that the mo ney will be there. I can write a personal check and there may be no money in  my account, but you don’t know that. If I give you a cashier’s check, you kno w that the bank will cash it because it has the bank’s name on it. That’s a cash ier’s check.

The teller asked me to “endorse” the check. “To end orse” a check means to put your signature on the back of it so that the bank k nows that it’s really you who is cashing or depositing the check. I asked for my mon ey “in small bills.” A “bill” is a piece of paper money, and different bills have diff erent values. There are $1 bills, $5 bills, $10 bills, $20 bills, $50 bills, and $100  bills. The highest-value bill currently used in the U.S. is the $100 bill. Every kind of bill has a different person’s picture on it, usually a president.

When we say, “I want tens and twenties” or “I want fives and tens,” using the plural form, we mean “I want $10 and $20 bills” or “I want $5 and $10 bills.” “Small bills” are $1 bills, $5 bills, $10 bills, an d $20 bills. Large bills are $50 and $100 bills. After giving me my cash, the teller sai d, “Here you are,” meaning “Here’s your money.” She “counted out the cash.” “T o count out” money means

to physically count the cash in front of you so tha t you can see that it is all there. For example, if I’m giving you 100 dollars, I might  say, “Here’s 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100.”

After I picked up my money, I “walked away.” “To wa lk away” means to leave somewhere by walking. And I said, “Now that I have some money burning a hole in my pocket, I guess I’d better spend it!” The exp ression “money burning a hole in your pocket” means that you have some money now,  and you want to spend it so much that it is trying to burn its way out of yo ur pocket.

We often use this expression when, for example, we get paid at the end of the month or the end of the week: “This money is burnin g a hole in my pocket!” You’re not even sure what you want to spend it on, but you want to spend it on something.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed. > The local branch of my bank is located just a few b locks from where I live. It's very convenient, since it has four ATMs open 24/7. Today I had to go make a deposit, but because I wanted to cash a check as we ll, I needed to go inside to talk to a teller.
> Inside the bank, I got in line for the tellers. All  of the tellers are behind a large piece of bulletproof glass, so you have to speak up  when you are talking to them. When I got to the head of the line, the cashier ask ed, "How may I help you?" I said, "I'd like to deposit this payroll check into my checking account and cash this cashier's check." "Certainly," she said, "just endo rse the back of both checks and put them in the tray." I said, "Sure. And can I get  that in small bills – tens and twenties?"
> I waited for her to process my checks. Then she sai d, "Here you are," and counted out the cash and put it in an envelope. "Th ank you," I said, and walked away. Now that I have some money burning a hole in my pocket, I guess I’d better spend it!





