# At the Movies

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 26 – At the Movies.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 26. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss going to the movies over the weekend. Let's get started. > My friend Jim and I decided to see the latest block buster this weekend. I like a good action movie once in a while. We decided to me et at the movie theater after work.
> When I got to the theater, I looked around and didn 't see Jim. So, I thought I would get in line to buy tickets. There were two di fferent lines, so I asked a woman standing in the first one, "Is this the line for Mission Impossible 4 ?" She said, "Yes, I'm afraid it is." I turned around and saw why she said that. The line was really long and had about 20 people in it alrea dy. Oh, well. I went to the back of the line and waited.
> About 10 minutes later, I saw Jim coming up the esc alator. When he got off the escalator, he looked out of breath. He said, "Hey, sorry for being so late. I hit a lot of traffic on the way over." I told him, "Don't wor ry about it. As you can see, we have a long wait."
> We finally got to the head of the line and walked u p to the ticket window. The clerk behind the ticket window asked, "Can I help y ou?" I said, "Two tickets for MI-4, please." We weren't children, students, or se niors, so there were no special discounts for us. The clerk handed me two tickets a nd we headed inside. There was a ticket taker just inside the door. He took ou r tickets and handed back our stubs.
> Coming straight from work, I was really hungry. Jim  and I went to the concession stand and got a couple of Cokes, hot dogs, a tub of  popcorn, and a box of candy. We were set. We went into the screening room and it  was packed. Luckily for us, we found some seats together that weren't too close  to the screen.
> Today I talked about my friend Jim and me going to see a movie. The movie was “the latest blockbuster.” A “blockbuster” (blockbus ter) is a very successful movie or book, one that is very popular. I said, “I like a good action movie once in a while.” An “action (action) movie” is a movie with lots of car chases, fights, and violence. That’s an action movie.

I said that Jim and I “decided to meet at the movie  theater after work.” When we say “after work,” we mean after we are finished wit h our jobs. When I got to the movie theater, I thought I would “get in line to bu y tickets.” “To get in line” means to stand in line with other people who are also buy ing tickets. “Tickets” (tickets) are what you need to get into the movie theater. A ticket is a little piece of paper that they give you that allows you to enter the the ater where the movie is showing or playing.

I said that I wasn’t sure which line I should get i nto or stand in, so I asked a woman if this was the right line for my movie, and she said, “Yes, I’m afraid it is.” The expression “I’m afraid” here doesn’t mean that she is actually scared or afraid of something. It’s an expression we use some times when we have to tell someone some bad news. “I’m afraid that you failed the test,” the teacher might say to the student; it’s bad news. So, we use the e xpression “I’m afraid” when we’re telling people some news they probably don’t want to hear.

I decided to get into the line, and I used the expr ession “Oh, well.” “Oh, well” is an expression that we use to mean, “Well, I guess I  can’t do anything about it” or “That’s just the way that it is.” I can’t change it . Oh, well. I said that I went “to the back of the line.” A line of people can be thought of as having three parts: the “head of the line,” which is the front; the “middle  of the line”; and the “back of the line,” which is the end of the line.

My friend “got off the escalator.” An “escalator” ( escalator) is a set of stairs that moves mechanically. It’s a moving staircase. Notice  the verb we use: “to get off” the escalator. You can also use that verb for an el evator. An “elevator” (elevator) is something that goes straight up and straight dow n in a building and takes you from one floor to another floor. You “get on” the e levator and you “get off” the elevator, just as you get on and get off the escala tor. You can also get on or get

off an airplane or a boat or a bus. Jim “got off the escalator” when he reached the end of it.

I said that Jim “looked out of breath.” “To be out of breath” means you are breathing very hard and very fast, possibly because  you have just been running or walking quickly up some stairs. Jim told me that  he “hit a lot of traffic on the way over.” “To hit traffic” means that you’re drivi ng and suddenly there are a lot of cars on the road at the same time, and everyone has to slow down. “On the way over” means on my way here – on my way to the t heater, in this case.

When Jim and I got to the head of the line, we “wal ked up to the ticket window.” The “ticket window” (window) is the place in a movi e theater or any sort of theater where you buy tickets. So, we walked up to the tick et window, and because we were not children or students or seniors, “there we re no special discounts for us.” Movie theaters in the United States often give a “d iscount” (discount) – a lower price – if you are a child or if you are a student at the university or if you are over a certain age, usually 65 years old. We call those who are over 65 years old “seniors.”

I said the clerk “handed me two tickets” and “we he aded inside.” “To hand” something to someone means to give it to them; you are giving something to them with your hand. “To head inside” means to go i nside or to go in the direction of. “I am headed to San Francisco” means I am going  in the direction of San Francisco.

When we got inside, there was “a ticket taker.” A “ ticket taker” is the person who takes your ticket so you can get inside the theater . In this case, the ticket is torn or ripped in half, and the ticket taker gives you b ack half of the ticket, sort of like a receipt. That little part of the ticket that you get back is called a “stub” (stub). So, the ticket taker “handed back,” or gave back, “ our stubs.”

I said that I had come straight from work. When we say, “I came straight from work” or “I came straight from school,” we mean tha t we didn’t stop anywhere. We didn’t stop to eat. We didn’t stop at home. We w ent directly from one place to another place. You can “come straight from” any loc ation, any place. “I went to my girlfriend’s straight from work.” Well, right af ter going to the bar with my friends.

If you want to buy some food in a movie theater or any sort of theater or stadium, you have to go to the “concession stand.” A “conces sion (concession) stand” is a place where they sell food and drinks, and sometime s other things like shirts and hats, if it’s in a sports stadium. In a theater, a concession stand sells soda, like

Coca-Cola. They also sell popcorn, and usually they  put the popcorn in a big container that we call a “tub” (tub). “A tub of pop corn” is a big container of popcorn, like a big bowl of popcorn.

“We went into the screening room and it was packed. ” There are two parts to most movie theaters. There’s the “lobby,” which is outside of the screening room and where you’ll find the concession stand and the “restrooms,” or public bathrooms. And then there’s the “screening (screeni ng) room,” which is where all the seats are and where you actually watch the movi e. Sometimes we just call this the “movie theater,” although the term “movie theater” can also refer to the entire building. Nowadays, many movie theaters have  more than one screening room. Sometimes there are a dozen or more screening  rooms in a single theater, so that instead of having one or two bad movies to choose from, you have twelve.

I said the screening room “was packed.” When we say  something is “packed,” we mean that it is full. It is very, very full. When a  theater is packed, almost every seat is taken. We can also use that expression for other things. We can say, for example, “I went to my friend’s party and his house  was packed” – his house was very full of people. I then said that we “found som e seats together that weren't too close to the screen.” The “screen” (screen) is the big white thing that we watch the movie on. It’s what is hanging on the wal l at the front of the screening room. We say that the movie is “projected onto” or “shown on” the screen.

I said we “watched 10 minutes of previews.” In most  movies that you go to in the U.S., there are a lot of “previews.” “Previews” (pr eviews) are basically commercials or advertisements for other movies that  are going to be showing at the movie theater soon. Usually the previews last a bout 10 minutes and are shown before you get to watch the actual movie you came to see.

I said that Jim and I “wolfed down our food.” “To w olf (wolf) down” means to eat very quickly. When you’re really, really hungry, yo u may eat your food very fast. The informal expression for this is “to wolf down.”  A “wolf” is an animal that is the enemy of “sheep,” which are the animals that we get  wool from. But the idea here is that a wolf eats very quickly. So, “to wolf down ” your food means that you are eating like a wolf.

The kind of food that you buy in a movie theater is  what we would call “junk food.” “Junk” (junk) is garbage – something that’s not worth very much, something that isn’t very good. We call that junk. Well, “junk food” is food like popcorn and hot dogs and potato chips. It’s not goo d for you, but it tastes really good.

 Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

My friend Jim and I decided to see the latest block buster this weekend. I like a good action movie once in a while. We decided to me et at the movie theater after work.

When I got to the theater, I looked around and didn 't see Jim. So, I thought I would get in line to buy tickets. There were two di fferent lines, so I asked a woman standing in the first one, "Is this the line for Mission Impossible 4 ?" She said, "Yes, I'm afraid it is." I turned around and saw why she said that. The line was really long and had about 20 people in it alrea dy. Oh, well. I went to the back of the line and waited.

About 10 minutes later, I saw Jim coming up the esc alator. When he got off the escalator, he looked out of breath. He said, "Hey, sorry for being so late. I hit a lot of traffic on the way over." I told him, "Don't wor ry about it. As you can see, we have a long wait."

We finally got to the head of the line and walked u p to the ticket window. The clerk behind the ticket window asked, "Can I help y ou?" I said, "Two tickets for MI-4, please." We weren't children, students, or se niors, so there were no special discounts for us. The clerk handed me two tickets a nd we headed inside. There was a ticket taker just inside the door. He took ou r tickets and handed back our stubs.

Coming straight from work, I was really hungry. Jim  and I went to the concession stand and got a couple of Cokes, hot dogs, a tub of  popcorn, and a box of candy. We were set. We went into the screening room and it  was packed. Luckily for us, we found some seats together that weren't too close  to the screen.

We sat back and waited for the movie to start. Whil e we watched 10 minutes of previews, we wolfed down our food. By the time the movie started, I was feeling pretty good. I don't know which was better, the mov ie or the great junk food!

[end of story]
