# Driving on the Freeways

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 16 – Driving on the Freeways.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 16. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Today's topic is going to be driving on the freeway . Let’s get started.  > Driving in a big city like L.A. can be very difficu lt. It sometimes feels like I'm doing battle just to get to the grocery store. What is it  about getting behind the wheel that brings out people's aggressive side? The most mild-mannered driver becomes crazy when they get on the road.
> In L.A., people rely on the freeway to commute to their jobs or just to get around town. I think driving on the freeway has its good a nd its bad. On the one hand, there are no stoplights and the speed limit is over  55 miles per hour so you can get somewhere quickly.  On the other hand, there are drawbacks, too. People like to gun their engines and cut off other cars to  get ahead.  If you’re driving in the passing lane, for example, you’d better be driv ing very fast, since most people are speeding.  With all of these speeding ca rs, it’s not unusual to see a pileup every day of the week!
> As an alternate to the freeway, I sometimes take su rface streets. Of course, surface streets have their drawbacks, too. If you h ave a long commute to work or school, it can take you a long time to get there. T here are a lot of stop signs, stoplights, and crosswalks. And, people sometimes t ailgate if they think you're not going fast enough. Now that I think about it, there's sometimes even more congestion on surface streets than on the freeways!
> It’s tough living in L.A. unless you never leave yo ur house!

Our story begins when I say that, “Driving in a big  city like L.A.” – Los Angeles – “can be very difficult.” “It sometimes feels like I 'm doing battle.” “It sometimes feels like” – “it appears to me,” “it seems” – that  I'm doing battle. “To do battle” (battle) usually means to fight physically, or perh aps psychologically, with

another person. “To do battle” is a phrase we would  associate with the army, with a war, for example. But here, it just means I'm bat tling against other drivers – not physically, of course.

I say that “It sometimes feels like I'm doing battl e just to get to the grocery store” – the store where I buy my food. “What is it about getting behind the wheel that brings out people's aggressive side?” “To get behin d the wheel” (wheel) means to drive a car or a truck. You could say, “If you'r e going to drink alcohol, don't get behind the wheel,” meaning don't drive. The “wheel”  here refers to the “steering (steering) wheel” which is the round thing you turn  to move the car left and right.

I asked the question, “What is it about getting beh ind the wheel that brings out people's aggressive side?” “What is it about,” is a  common way of saying, “Why does this happen?” We use it when we're not really sure what the answer to the question is. We really don't know. “What is it abou t getting behind the wheel that brings out,” or that gets people to show, “their ag gressive side.” “To be aggressive” (aggressive) means, usually, to be very  forceful, to be very strong in a way that almost seems like you're trying to start  a fight. “To be aggressive” is to move with force, with determination, with strength.  The aggressive side of people comes out when they are driving on the freeway. “Th e most-mild mannered driver,” I say, “becomes crazy when they get on the  road.” A “driver” (driver) is a person who drives a car. “To be mild-mannered” mean s to me very calm – someone who's not likely to start a fight, someone who's very peaceful. I say that “The most mild mannered driver becomes crazy when they get on the road” – when they start driving. So, people who are normall y calm, when they get into the car and start to drive, they seem to go crazy.

“In L.A., people rely on,” or depend on, “the freew ay to commute to their jobs or just to get around town.” “To commute” (commute) me ans to travel from one place to another, usually between your home and whe re you work. We use the word “commute” when talking about going to and from  work. Some people commute in their cars. In some cities, people commu te on a subway. It depends on where you live. In L.A., people use the freeway to commute.

“I think driving on the freeway,” I say, “has its g ood and its bad.” “Its good and its bad” means its good side and its bad side. There are positive things and there are negative things about driving on the freeway. A  “freeway” is a road that doesn't have any stop signs or stoplights usually, where cars are driving much faster than on the other roads that are in a city.

I start with the good things. I say, “On the one ha nd.” That phrase “on the one hand” is used when you are going to give two sides to some story. You're going

to talk about two different things which may contra dict, or be opposite of each other. “On the one hand there are no stoplights.” “ Stoplights” are red, green, and yellow lights that tell you whether you can go and continue driving, or you must stop. “There are no stoplights on the freeway and the speed limit is over 55 miles per hour.” The “speed limit” is the maximum or high est speed that a car can drive on a certain road. In most American cities, the spe ed limit on the freeway is either 55 or 65 miles an hour. The speed limit on the streets in the city that are not freeways is usually much less – maybe 30, 35 mi les per hour.

“On the other hand,” I say – and I'm going to give the negative things about freeways – “there are drawbacks, too.” A “drawback”  (drawback) is a negative quality, a disadvantage of something, something tha t is not good that you don't want. The drawback of driving on the freeway, or at  least one of them, is that people like to gun their engines. “To gun (gun) you r engine (engine)” means to suddenly start driving very fast. Your engine is the same as your motor. It's the piece of machinery that makes your car go, causes y our car to move. “To gun your engine” means to suddenly go very fast in your  car.

Another disadvantage of driving on the freeway is that people cut you off. I say, “People cut off other cars to get ahead.” “To cut s omeone off” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to move your car right in fron t of another car, usually so the other car has to slow down and you have to let that person come in front of you. I say that, “If you're driving in the passing lane, you'd better be driving very fast.” The “passing lane,” sometimes called the “fa st lane,” is the lane usually that's farthest to the left. A “lane” is just a par t of the freeway. Freeways in Los Angeles usually have two, three, sometimes four or even five lanes where cars are driving next to each other. If you want to “pas s” someone, that is, to go in front of someone and be traveling in front of them,  you should go to the first lane on the left – the lane that is farthest to the left . That's the passing lane or the fast lane.

On L.A. freeways, most people are “speeding.” “To s peed” (speed), as a verb, means to drive very fast, to be driving faster than  what you are supposed to be driving – faster than the speed limit. I say, “With  all of these speeding cars, it's not unusual” – it's not uncommon – “to see a pileup  every day of the week.” A “pileup” (pileup) is a car accident involving more than two cars, often three, four perhaps even 10 cars.

I say that, “As an alternate to the freeway, I some times take surface streets.” An “alternate” or an “alternate route,” would be a dif ferent way of doing something, a different choice, a different option. In this case,  the different option, instead of the freeway, would be to take or to drive on “surface s treets.” “Surface (surface)

streets” are roads that are not like a freeway – ro ads that have stop signs and places where you have to stop or that you have to d rive more slowly. I say that surface streets have their drawbacks too. “If you h ave a long commute to work or school, it can take you a long time to get there.” “There are lots of stop signs,” which are the red signs that have the word “stop” o n them, “stop lights,” which we've explained already, and “crosswalks.”  A “cros swalk” (crosswalk) – one word – is a place for people who are walking to cro ss a street, to go from one side of the street to another. And in most places, if there is someone in a crosswalk, you, as the driver, must stop.

“People sometimes tailgate,” I say, “if they think you're not going fast enough.” “To tailgate” (tailgate) means to drive right behin d another car, too close for safety. That is, you’re driving so close that you c ould easily cause an accident. People do this here in L.A. when they think someone  is driving too slowly, in order to get them to either drive more quickly or to move to one side so that the car behind them can go ahead.

I say, “Now that I think about it,” now that I thin k about the situation more seriously, “there’s sometimes even more congestion on surface streets than on the freeways.” “Congestion” (congestion) is when yo u have a large crowd of, in this case, cars – a large group of cars that makes you have to slow down – that causes you not to be able to move very quickly. “Co ngestion” on the freeway would be lots of cars having to drive slowly becaus e there are too many cars on the freeway.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time, at a normal speed.

[start of story]

Driving in a big city like L.A. can be very difficu lt. It sometimes feels like I'm doing battle just to get to the grocery store. What is it  about getting behind the wheel that brings out people's aggressive side? The most mild-mannered driver becomes crazy when they get on the road.

In L.A., people rely on the freeway to commute to their jobs or just to get around town. I think driving on the freeway has its good a nd its bad. On the one hand, there are no stoplights and the speed limit is over  55 miles per hour so you can get somewhere quickly.  On the other hand, there are drawbacks, too. People like to gun their engines and cut off other cars to  get ahead.  If you’re driving in the passing lane, for example, you’d better be driv ing very fast, since most people are speeding.  With all of these speeding ca rs, it’s not unusual to see a pileup every day of the week!

 As an alternate to the freeway, I sometimes take su rface streets. Of course, surface streets have their drawbacks, too. If you h ave a long commute to work or school, it can take you a long time to get there. T here are a lot of stop signs, stoplights, and crosswalks. And, people sometimes t ailgate if they think you're not going fast enough. Now that I think about it, there's sometimes even more congestion on surface streets than on the freeways!

It’s tough living in L.A. unless you never leave yo ur house!

[end of story]

We thank our mild-mannered scriptwriter for this wo nderful script. I speak, of course, of Dr. Lucy Tse.

”

