# A Visit to the Doctor

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 23 – A Visit to the Doctor.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 23. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss going to the doctor. Let's get started.  > Going to the doctor is never particularly pleasant for me. But I couldn’t put it off any longer. It was time for my annual physical, and  there was no getting around it. So I picked up the phone and called for an appo intment. “I’d like to see Dr. Shimoya next week, please, if that’s possible,” I s aid. Of course, it wasn’t possible. The doctor was booked until next month, t he receptionist told me. “Okay,” I said, “Let’s schedule it for next month.”
> When the day arrived, I drove over to the doctor an d checked in at the receptionist’s desk. I had to present my HMO card a nd pay the co-pay of $15.00. The receptionist instructed me to go to waiting roo m B, down the hall, first door on the right. So I went there and took a seat to wa it. And I waited, and waited. Finally, my name was called and I went in to see the doctor. The nurse weighed me, took my temperature and blood pressure, and ask ed me why I was there. I told her it was time for my yearly checkup. She tol d me to follow her to the examination room and then to strip down to my under wear.
> Now I was sitting on the exam table, half-freezing,  waiting for the doctor to show up. Finally, he walked in, looked at my chart, and began his examination. “Breathe,” he said, as he placed the stethoscope on  my chest. “Breathe in and out slowly,” he said. I did so. Then he checked my throat and had me lie down to check my abdomen. Finally, he ordered a blood test and said, “Well, you’re good for another year, Mr. McQuillan.”
> Thank goodness, I thought to myself, and got dresse d to leave.

Today we are talking about going to the doctor. I b egan by saying, “Going to the doctor is never particularly pleasant for me.” When  we say something is

“particularly pleasant,” or “particularly” plus som e other adjective, we mean “especially” or “very.” “This cookie is not particu larly good” means this cookie isn’t especially good or it isn't very good, and “not par ticularly pleasant” means not especially pleasant or not very pleasant.

“Going to see the doctor is never particularly plea sant for me. But,” I said, “I couldn't put it off any longer.” The word “it” in t his sentence refers to going to the doctor, and “to put something off” means to delay i t, to wait before doing it. For example, “I put off doing my homework until the nig ht before it was due” means I didn't do my homework right away. I delayed or wait ed until I had to do it.

In the story, I was trying to put off going to the doctor, but “I couldn’t put it off any longer” because “it was time for my annual physical .” An “annual physical” is when you go to the doctor not because you are sick,  but to make sure that you are healthy. “Annual” (annual) is an adjective mean ing once a year, and “physical” (physical) here refers to a general exam ination by a doctor.

In some American schools, children are required to have a physical every year. Many adults also go to the doctor once a year to ge t checked. We call this an “annual physical” or a “checkup” (checkup). Similar ly, when you go to a dentist to have your teeth checked every six months or every y ear, you can say, “I’m going in for a checkup,” meaning I'm going to see the den tist even though there may be nothing wrong with me, but I want to get checked an yway.

I said there was “no getting around it.” The word “ it” again refers to going to the doctor. The expression “to get around” something is  a phrasal verb. It means to avoid something, to find a way so that you don't ha ve to do something. But if you can't avoid it, then “there's no getting around it. ” “There’s no getting around talking to my neighbor.” It is not possible to avoi d that situation. After all, he is my neighbor. He lives next to my house.

When I called for the appointment, I said to the do ctor’s receptionist – the person who answers the phone – “I’d like to see Dr. Shimoy a.” “I’d like to see” here means “I’d like to make an appointment to see” or “ I would like to schedule an appointment to see.” The doctor, unfortunately, “wa s booked until next month.” “To be booked” (booked) means to already have somet hing else scheduled for a given date or time.

If someone asks you, “Can you go to dinner with me tonight?” but you already have made plans to have dinner with someone else, y ou could say, “Oh, I’m sorry, I’m booked tonight.” You can also say that i f you just don't like this person and don't want to have dinner with them, but I don' t recommend lying, of course.

We normally use this expression when talking about meeting with professionals such as doctors, dentists, professors, and so forth  – anyone you might need to make an appointment to see.

I said that I went to the doctor on the day of my a ppointment and I “checked in at the receptionist’s desk.” “To check (check) in” at a doctor’s office means to go to the front desk and tell the receptionist who you ar e so that they know you are there for your appointment. You can also check in a t a hotel. You can check in at an airport. This is when you give the person workin g for the airline – the ticket agent – your ticket, and they give you something ca lled a “boarding pass,” which is a piece of paper that you need to get on the air plane. Well, you also check in at the doctor’s and dentist’s office when you arriv e for your appointment. You tell them that you are here so they know that you are re ady to see the doctor, even though the doctor won't be ready to see you.

I said I had to “present my HMO card.” “To present”  here means to give. “HMO” stands for “health maintenance organization.” An HM O is basically a private company that offers medical insurance to people. Yo u buy insurance from the company, and then you can go and see one of the doc tors that use that same insurance company or get paid by that same insuranc e company.

I also had to pay “the co-pay of $15.00.” In the Un ited States it's very common, when you have health insurance with an HMO, to have  to pay something extra every time you go to the doctor. You don't have to pay a lot of money. You don't have to pay what we might refer to as the “full pri ce.” The insurance company pays for most of it, but you often have to pay a sm all amount, and we call that small amount a “co-pay” (co-pay). The co-pay might be $15. It might be $20. It might be as much as $50, depending on your health i nsurance.

After I checked in and paid my co-pay, “the recepti onist instructed me” – or told me – “to go to waiting room B.” A “waiting (waiting ) room” in a doctor’s or dentist’s office or a hospital or any sort of medic al facility is the place where you sit down and wait until they call your name. They c all your name when the doctor is ready to see you. They say your name, and then i t is time for you to go in for your appointment. So, I went to the waiting room wi th the letter “B.” This is just a common way of naming waiting rooms. There may be a waiting room A, a waiting room B, a waiting room C, and so forth.

The waiting room was located “down the hall, first door on the right.” The word “hall” (hall) is short for “hallway” (hallway), whi ch is a long space between rooms where you walk in a building. To say something is “ down the hall” means it is

located nearby in the hallway, probably just a shor t distance. It's similar to the expression “down the street,” which means nearby or  close by on that street.

The phrase “the first door on the right” is a commo n way of giving directions to people. “The first door on the right” means the fir st door that you walk by on your right-hand side. The second door on the left would be the second door on your left-hand side, and so forth. After I waited for a very long time, my name was called – meaning someone said my name – and I went in to see the doctor. When I got into the doctor's office, the nurse “wei ghed” me. “To weigh (weigh) someone” means to find out how heavy they are or, i n my case, how fat I am.

The nurse also took my temperature. “To take someon e's temperature” (temperature) means to measure a person's body heat  with something called a “thermometer” (thermometer). A ‘thermometer” can ei ther be a little stick that goes in your mouth or a small device that goes in y our ear. There’s actually one other place they can put a thermometer, but we won' t talk about that now.

The nurse also checked my blood pressure. Your “blo od (blood) pressure (pressure)” has to do with how the blood is moving through your body. Usually, they check your blood pressure by wrapping a band a round your upper arm and then pumping air into the band to measure your bloo d pressure. You want to have low blood pressure, not high blood pressure. I f you have high blood pressure, then you could have problems with your he art or other things, but go see your doctor about this. I'm not a medical docto r.

I told the nurse I was there for my “yearly checkup .” “Yearly” (yearly) means the same as annually, or once a year. You can also say “monthly,” meaning every month, or “weekly,” meaning every week, or “daily,”  meaning, of course, every day. The nurse told me to “follow her to the examin ation room.” The “examination (examination) room,” or “exam room” for short, is t he room in a hospital or doctor's office where the doctor sees you or examin es you.

The nurse told me to “strip down to my underwear.” “To strip (strip) down (down)” means to take off your clothing. And your “underwea r” (underwear) is what you wear underneath your outer clothes, underneath your  shirt and pants. So, “to strip down to your underwear” means to take off all  your clothing except for your underwear. I was sitting on the “exam table” – shor t for “examination table” – which is like a little bed that you lie on or sit o n when the doctor is examining you, or looking at you. I waited for the doctor to show up. “To show up” is a two-word phrasal verb that means to arrive – usually to arri ve for an appointment or something that has been scheduled at an earlier dat e.

The doctor looked at my chart. Your “chart” (chart)  – or your “file” – in a hospital or in a doctor's office means your medical records.  They keep your records in a file, and this file is called a “chart.” When a doc tor writes in your chart, it means he writes something in your file describing whateve r it is that you are there for. Of course, nowadays, most of this is done on computers . The doctor placed a “stethoscope” on my chest. A “stethoscope” (stethos cope) is an instrument that doctors use to listen to your heart and to your bre athing. One side of the stethoscope goes in the doctor's ears, and the othe r side has a little round disk that is placed against your chest to listen to your  heart and lungs.

The doctor also checked my abdomen. The “abdomen” ( abdomen) is the medical term for the area above your hips, above your waist , and below your chest. The area that includes your stomach is part of your abd omen. The doctor then ordered a “blood test.” A “blood (blood) test” is j ust what it sounds like. It is a test of your blood. You go to a laboratory and they stic k or put a sharp instrument called a “needle” in your arm, and then they draw y our blood, meaning they take a little bit of blood out of your body. Then they a nalyze or test the blood. The expression we use when a doctor wants this test per formed is “to order a blood test.”

The doctor then told me I was “good for another yea r,” which meant I was all done and I didn't have to come back until the next year. I thought to myself, “Thank goodness,” meaning “I'm glad about that.”

Now let's listen to the story again, this time at a  normal speed.

[start of story]

Going to the doctor is never particularly pleasant for me. But I couldn’t put it off any longer. It was time for my annual physical, and  there was no getting around it. So I picked up the phone and called for an appo intment. “I’d like to see Dr. Shimoya next week, please, if that’s possible,” I s aid. Of course, it wasn’t possible. The doctor was booked until next month, t he receptionist told me. “Okay,” I said, “Let’s schedule it for next month.”

When the day arrived, I drove over to the doctor an d checked in at the receptionist’s desk. I had to present my HMO card a nd pay the co-pay of $15.00. The receptionist instructed me to go to waiting roo m B, down the hall, first door on the right. So I went there and took a seat to wa it. And I waited, and waited. Finally, my name was called and I went in to see the doctor. The nurse weighed me, took my temperature and blood pressure, and ask ed me why I was there. I

told her it was time for my yearly checkup. She tol d me to follow her to the examination room and then to strip down to my under wear.

Now I was sitting on the exam table, half-freezing,  waiting for the doctor to show up. Finally, he walked in, looked at my chart, and began his examination. “Breathe,” he said, as he placed the stethoscope on  my chest. “Breathe in and out slowly,” he said. I did so. Then he checked my throat and had me lie down to check my abdomen. Finally, he ordered a blood test and said, “Well, you’re good for another year, Mr. McQuillan.”

Thank goodness, I thought to myself, and got dresse d to leave.

[end of story]

Thanks to fantastic scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all her hard work, and thanks to you for listening.

