# Getting Ready for Bed and Going to Sleep

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 11: Getting Ready for Bed and Going to Sleep

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number eleven. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, the last of our 10-part special se ries on daily English, I’ll talk about getting ready for bed and going to sleep.

Let’s get started!

[Start of story]

At 10:30, I decide to get ready for bed.  When I wa s little, my mother would read me a bedtime story.  I’m looking forward to having that ritual with my own kids someday.

I go into the bathroom and turn on the tap.  I wash  my face, and dry it with my towel.  I floss and brush my teeth.  I have to admi t that by this time, I’m beat, and so is my wife.  She cleans up when I’ve finished up .

In the meantime, I walk into the bedroom and get un dressed.  I put my dirty clothes in the hamper and I put on my pajamas.  Wea ring my slippers, I go into the kitchen to get a glass of water to put next to the bed in case I need it during the night.  I pull back the covers, fluff my pillow , and climb into bed.  I set my alarm clock for 6:15, and turn off the overhead lig ht.  I lay my head down and pull up the covers, kissing my wife goodnight.  Some nig hts I have trouble falling asleep, but tonight, I didn’t need to count any she ep.  I nod off right away and before long, I’m fast asleep.

[End of story]

This episode is called "Getting Ready for Bed and G oing to Sleep."

"At 10:30, I decide to get ready for bed," to do the things I need to do so I can go to sleep.  "When I was little, my mother would read  me a bedtime story." “Bedtime” (bedtime) – all one word – is, of course,  the time that you go to bed - that you go to your bed so you can sleep.  A bedtim e story is a story you would

ESL Podcast 11 - Getting Ready for Bed and Going to  Sleep

tell a child to help them fall asleep.  Many childr en like to be told a bedtime story. These are often what we would call “fairy tales” (f airy) “tales” (tales).  A “tale” is just another word for a story, and a fairy tale is a story about something that isn't true, usually with imaginary characters.

"I’m looking forward to having that ritual with my own kids someday."  "I’m looking forward to having that ritual." A “ritual” (ritual)  is something that you do on a regular schedule or at a regular time every day or maybe every week or every month, and you do the exact same things in the exac t same order.  We also use that word, ritual, when we are talking about some r eligious ceremonies.  Some religious events have certain rules - certain order  - a certain order that they follow, and that is a ritual.

"I go into the bathroom and I turn on the tap."  the “tap” (tap) is the same as the faucet.  Well, you turn on the tap so the water com es out. "I wash my face, and dry it with my towel."  I dry my face - I make it d ry using a “towel” (towel) which is a cloth that you use to dry yourself, or to clean y ourself.  I floss my teeth and I brush them.

"I have to admit that by this time, I’m beat."  "I have to admit" is an expression that we use when you're going to say something that  maybe you don't want to say - you don't want to tell the truth.  In fact, there's also an expression, "to tell the truth."  So, I have to admit means I have to say - to tell the truth.  "By this time," meaning by 10:30 - "by this time, I’m beat."   To be beat, "beat," means to be very tired.  Someone says, "Oh, I'm beat," they' ve been working all day or they've, like me, been watching television all day,  and now I'm beat - I'm tired.  Of course, I don't watch television all day, just part  of the day!

Well, my wife is also beat.  In the story I say, "I 'm beat, and so is my wife," meaning my wife is also very tired.  "She cleans up  when I’ve finished up."  Once again, you see those two-word verbs.  To clean up i s, in this case, to clean your face, to brush your teeth; to get yourself clean is  to clean up.  “To finish up” is really the same as to finish, but we love in Englis h to use those prepositions as part of these two word verbs.  So, I finish up, mea ning I finish doing what I need to do, and then my wife goes into the bathroom and cleans up.

"In the meantime," meaning while my wife is doing t hat. "In the meantime" (meantime) – all one word – I walk into the bedroom  and get undressed."  So, when my wife is in the bathroom, "I walk" - at the same time - "into the bedroom and I get undressed."  “To get undressed” is the op posite of to get dressed.  So, if you get undressed, you take off your clothes.

ESL Podcast 11 - Getting Ready for Bed and Going to  Sleep

 "I put my dirty clothes" - the clothes I was wearin g - "in the hamper and I put on my pajamas."  A “hamper” (hamper) as a noun, is a p lace, usually in your bedroom or bathroom, where you put dirty clothes or  dirty towels; we call that a hamper.  “To hamper,” as a verb, means something di fferent.  “To hamper someone” means to get in their way - to prevent the m from doing something.  But as a noun, a hamper, or a clothes hamper, is a plac e, usually it's a big plastic box with a top on it, or it could be made of wood, and that's where you put your dirty clothes.  And then, at some point during the week, I hope, you wash your clothes so you can have clean clothes again.  Unless, of co urse, you're not married, in which case, if you are a man and single, you may no t wash your clothes that much.

Well, I have "my dirty clothes in my hamper," and s ince I don't have any clothes on, remember I have undressed, "I put on my pajamas ."  “Pajamas” (pajamas) are sometimes abbreviated as “PJs” (PJ) – PJs.  You r pajamas, or PJs, are the clothes that you wear when you are going to bed.  F or example, I have pajamas that say Superman on it, and I wear my Superman paj amas to bed.  Doesn't everyone?

Well, in addition to putting on my pajamas, I also put on my slippers.  A “slipper” (slipper) is a shoe that you wear usually just insi de the house.  So, when you are getting ready for bed and you want to walk around the house, you don't put your shoes on, you would put some slippers on.  Some peo ple wear slippers in their house, especially if the floors are cold, and they' ll put the slippers on at night and have them on at night as they walk around in their house or in the morning.

Well, "Wearing my slippers, I go into the kitchen to get a glass of water," and I want to put that water "next to my bed in case I ne ed it during the night."  So, if I need to drink water at night, I have a glass of wat er next to me.  "I pull back the covers."  The “covers” (covers) are the blanket, the comforter, and the top sheets.  We take those things and we have to pull them back.  To pull back means to take them and move them towards the bottom  of the bed so that you can get in, and after you get in, you're going to p ull the covers up.  So, you pull back the covers to get into the bed, and then you p ull them up to cover you again so you can stay warm.

"I pull back my covers," and I "fluff my pillow."  The pillow is what I put my head on.  “To fluff” (fluff) means to make your pillow b igger by hitting it very softly on the sides.  So, you take your pillow and you put on e hand on each side of the pillow and you move your hands back and forth towar d each other and away

ESL Podcast 11 - Getting Ready for Bed and Going to  Sleep

from each other, and that allows the pillow to be a  little bigger - to be a little softer.

"I fluff my pillow, and I climb into bed."  Notice that verb “to climb” (climb) into bed.  It means the same as to get into bed.  We mig ht use that particular verb, to climb into, if we are very tired, for example.  You  can also use it just to mean to get into bed.

So, I "climb into bed.  I set my alarm clock for 6: 15," - for 6:15 in the morning, of course - "and I turn off the overhead light."  The “overhead” (overhead) – all one word – is a light that is on the top of your room -  on the ceiling of the room.  The top of the room is called the “ceiling” (ceiling).  So, an overhead light is on the top of the ceiling - or on the ceiling, and I turn the overhead light off.

"I lay my head down."  “To lay” (lay) here means to  put something down.  Usually we use that verb when we are talking about people o r a part of your body.  "I lay my head down and I pull up the covers," so I am war m, and because I'm such a great husband, I kiss "my wife goodnight."  “To kis s someone goodnight,” means to kiss them and in a sense, to say goodnight to th em.  "Some nights I have trouble falling asleep."  “To fall (fall) asleep (a sleep)” means to go to sleep - to start sleeping.

Sometimes "I have trouble falling asleep, but tonig ht, I didn’t need to count any sheep."  The expression “to count sheep” (sheep) is  used because we traditionally when we are trying to fall asleep, so me people say that it helps if you try counting numbers, so you start with one, two, t hree, four.  And, for some reason, I don't know why, it is traditional to coun t sheep.  Sheep are a type of animal.  A sheep is an animal that you take the hai r off of, and you use the hair of the sheep to make clothing, for example.  I don't n eed to count sheep because I'm very tired.  If you are not tired or you have d ifficulty falling asleep, you might want to try counting sheep.  One, two, three, four,  and by the time you reach five million you should be asleep!

"I nod off right away."  “To nod (nod) off” – two w ords – means the same as to fall asleep.  It's just another way of saying fall aslee p, "I nod off."  Sometimes people will use that expression when they're at a meeting and it is very boring at work, and you may say to someone, "I almost nodded off" -  I almost fell asleep.  That usually happens to my students when I am teaching.

"Before long," meaning in a very short time – "befo re long, I’m fast asleep."  “To be fast (fast) asleep” means to be completely aslee p.  There's a similar

ESL Podcast 11 - Getting Ready for Bed and Going to  Sleep

expression that means the same, “to be sound asleep ” (sound).  “To be sound asleep” means that you are sleeping completely, it will not be easy to wake you up.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a nativ e rate of speech.

[Start of story]

At 10:30, I decide to get ready for bed.  When I wa s little, my mother would read me a bedtime story.  I’m looking forward to having that ritual with my own kids someday.

I go into the bathroom and turn on the tap.  I wash  my face, and dry it with my towel.  I floss and brush my teeth.  I have to admi t that by this time, I’m beat, and so is my wife.  She cleans up when I’ve finished up .

In the meantime, I walk into the bedroom and get un dressed.  I put my dirty clothes in the hamper and I put on my pajamas.  Wea ring my slippers, I go into the kitchen to get a glass of water to put next to the bed in case I need it during the night.  I pull back the covers, fluff my pillow , and climb into bed.  I set my alarm clock for 6:15, and turn off the overhead lig ht.  I lay my head down and pull up the covers, kissing my wife goodnight.  Some nig hts I have trouble falling asleep, but tonight, I didn’t need to count any she ep.  I nod off right away and before long, I’m fast asleep.

[End of story]

Make listening to her scripts part of your daily En glish learning ritual. I speak of our very own scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you,  Lucy!

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan,thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com.



ESL Podcast 11 - Getting Ready for Bed and Going to  Sleep

 ______



