# Missing Person, Part 2: ¡§Beer and Cigarettes.¡¨

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 62 – Missing Person , Part 2: “Beer and Cigarettes.”

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 62. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode is the second in our 12-part special s eries: Missing Person , a murder mystery. In part 1, we met Anne Prado, a stu dent at the University of Southwestern California in Los Angeles. Anne has a sister, Sarah Salas, but for some reason Anne can’t locate or find her sister. S he appears to have disappeared, or is missing.

Anne asked her professor, Dr. Reeves, to help her f ind her sister. The professor and Anne went over to Sarah’s apartment, but before  they could get to the door, Dr. Reeves was attacked by another man who started fighting with him. The man eventually ran away. We also learned that Sarah’s h usband, Bill, is also missing.

Now, part 2 of Missing Person : “Beer and Cigarettes.”   > Some of my students know I’m an amateur detective. Before I became a university professor five years ago, I had a real j ob. I worked for a security agency that protected private homes and also import ant people like famous actors and politicians. I learned a lot about crimi nals. I also learned a lot about police work from my father, who was a cop for 34 ye ars.
> I had wanted to become a police officer, too. But t hat was impossible. I got into some trouble when I was a kid. It was a stupid high  school trick, but because I was 18 years old, I was treated like an adult. I wa s arrested by the police, convicted, and now I have a police record. With a c riminal record, I can never be a cop.
> I worked for a while as a bodyguard. One of my case s was protecting a famous politician who was also a history buff. He and I be came friends, he helped me go to college, and now I am a professor.
> This episode begins with our narrator – the person telling the story, Dr. Reeves – talking a little bit about his own background. He s tarts by saying that he’s “an amateur detective.” An “amateur” (amateur) is someo ne who doesn’t necessarily get paid to do what they do. Someone who gets paid is called a “professional.” A “detective” is someone who tries to find a criminal  or tries to find information. Dr. Reeves explains that he has been a university profe ssor for five years.

Before that, he worked for “a security agency that protected private homes” and “important people.” A “security agency” is a compan y that provides protection for a business or a home or a person. We call someone w ho works for a security agency a “security guard.” The narrator also says t hat his father was a police officer for 34 years. The term he uses is “a cop.” A “cop” (cop) is an informal term meaning a police officer, someone working for the p olice.

Dr. Reeves also wanted to become a police officer, but something happened. He doesn’t tell us exactly what, but he says it was “a  stupid high school trick.” A “trick” (trick) is something that you do to someone  else, usually something mean, something bad. We don’t know what it was, but becau se he was 18 years old – which in the United States is the legal age – he wa s “treated like an adult.” “To treat someone like” is an expression we sometimes u se when talking about how we act toward someone. We might say, “Don’t treat m e like a child,” meaning don’t act toward me like I’m a child or talk to me like I am a child.

Dr. Reeves was “arrested by the police.” When the p olice “arrest” you, they put handcuffs on you and take you to the police station  – that’s where the police work, in a police station. Dr. Reeves was “convicte d” (convicted), meaning he went to a trial in front of a judge and a jury – the group of people who decide if you are innocent or not, if you did the crime or no t – and the jury said he was guilty. “To be found guilty” (guilty) is the same a s to be convicted. The opposite would be “to be acquitted.” “To be acquitted” means  you are found to be innocent, or not guilty.

Now Dr. Reeves has a police record. When we say som eone has a “police record” – a “criminal record,” or sometimes we just  say “a record” – we mean that they’ve committed some crime, and if you look up th at person’s name on the police computer, his name will come up along with t he name of his crime. Having a “criminal record” or “police record” means that t here are some jobs that you can no longer apply for or get, and becoming a cop, acc ording to Dr. Reeves, is one of those jobs.

The professor explains that he also worked as “a bo dyguard.” A “bodyguard” (bodyguard) is very much the same as a security gua rd, except when we say

“bodyguard,” we mean someone who is protecting a pe rson instead of a place. So, the president of the United States has bodyguar ds. We actually call those bodyguards “the Secret Service,” but for regular pr ivate citizens it would be a bodyguard.

Dr. Reeves was once the bodyguard for “a famous pol itician who was also a history buff.” A “buff” (buff) is a person who real ly likes a particular topic. So, you could be an “art buff,” meaning you like to go and look at art, or a “theater buff,” meaning you like to go to the theater – it’s like b eing a fan. Now, Dr. Reeves explains, because of this famous person whom he pro tected, he got interested in history and became a history professor himself.

We then return to the story, to the apartment of the missing couple, Sarah Salas and her husband, Bill. Dr. Reeves suggests to Anne that they go into the apartment and “take a look around.” “To take a look  around” can mean to look closely for a particular thing, often in a place th at you haven’t been to before. You can also “take a look around” without having someth ing you are looking for; you’re just looking. But here, Dr. Reeves and Anne are looking for clues about what happened to Sarah and Bill.

They go up to the apartment on the third floor. Ann e gets the key and gives it to Dr. Reeves. She says, “Here’s the key.” That’s an e xpression we often use when we give something to someone: “Here’s your pen,” “H ere is your . . .” whatever it happens to be. With the key, Dr. Reeves opens the d oor – very slowly, because it is “a stranger’s door.” A “stranger” is someone you don’t know.

The room is full of many expensive things, includin g “a big-screen television” – a television with a large screen – and “a fancy stere o.” Something that’s “fancy” is something that, in this case, is expensive. It has a lot of additional features and can do many different things – that would be someth ing that is fancy. A “stereo” here just means a radio, probably with a CD and MP3  player. Anne says that it “smells like beer and cigarettes” in the apartment,  and she points out that Bill and Sarah didn’t smoke.

The episode ends with Dr. Reeves going into the bac k of the apartment and mentioning how he looks in the mirror. He says that  he’s 42 years old, 5 feet 11 inches – and that’s how we say how tall we are: we say, “I’m 6 feet 3 inches” or “I’m 6 feet 3 inches tall” – they mean the same thi ng. That’s just an example. I am not actually 6 feet 3 inches tall, although sinc e you can’t see me, I could say that I was and you wouldn’t know the difference, wo uld you?

Dr. Reeves says that he’s “balding.” “To be balding ” (balding) means that you’re losing your hair. He checks the windows and the clo sets in the apartment and then begins to go into the bathroom. But he stops b ecause he sees something move. He then turns to Anne and puts his hand up in  the air. So, he takes his hand and indicates for Anne to stop. Then he puts h is finger to his lips, indicating that she should be quiet. Why? Because someone is i n the bathroom.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

Some of my students know I’m an amateur detective. Before I became a university professor five years ago, I had a real j ob. I worked for a security agency that protected private homes and also import ant people like famous actors and politicians. I learned a lot about crimi nals. I also learned a lot about police work from my father, who was a cop for 34 ye ars.

I had wanted to become a police officer, too. But t hat was impossible. I got into some trouble when I was a kid. It was a stupid high  school trick, but because I was 18 years old, I was treated like an adult. I wa s arrested by the police, convicted, and now I have a police record. With a c riminal record, I can never be a cop.

I worked for a while as a bodyguard. One of my case s was protecting a famous politician who was also a history buff. He and I be came friends, he helped me go to college, and now I am a professor.

As I said, when Anne came to see me this morning, I  told her I would be happy to help. We came over to the apartment building where Sarah and Bill live, and that’s when this mysterious man tried to stop us fr om going in.

“Let’s see if we can get into their apartment and t ake a look around,” I suggested.

We walked into the large white building and up to t he third floor. Anne got an extra key from the apartment manager so we could ge t in.

“Apartment number 306, Anne?” I asked her.

“Yes. Here’s the key,” she answered.

“Let me open the door.” I took the key from her. I opened the door very slowly. One thing I learned from my work as a bodyguard: Be  careful when opening a stranger’s door. You never know what’s behind it.

I opened the door slowly. I went in first, making s ure everything was okay before Anne followed. The living room was large and full o f expensive things: a big- screen television, a fancy stereo, a CD player, two  big brown leather chairs, and a comfortable-looking sofa. The living room alone w as bigger than my entire apartment.

“My God, it smells like beer and cigarettes in here ! Bill and Sarah didn’t even smoke,” Anne said.

I walked to the back of the apartment and saw mysel f in the mirror. I am always surprised at how I look: I’m 42 years old, 5 feet 1 1 inches tall, balding, average weight. But when I see myself in the mirror, I look  3 inches shorter, 5 years older, and 10 pounds heavier.

I checked the windows and the closets on each side of the apartment and went into the bathroom. Then I saw something move.

I quickly turned to Anne and put my hand up in the air, meaning: “Don’t move.” I put my finger to my lips, telling her to be quiet.

Someone was in the bathroom.

[end of story]

In the next episode of Missing Person , we’ll find out what they discover in the bathroom. Be sure to come back for part 3: “A Woman  in Pain.”

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hanks for listening. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

