# Airplane Announcements

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 81: Airplane Announcements.

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast epi sode 81. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center f or Educational Development in beautiful Honolulu, Hawaii – just kidding – in L os Angeles, California. Be sure to visit our website at www.eslpod.com.

Today’s podcast is about airplane announcements, wh at you hear when you take an airplane in the United States. Let’s go! > I had to fly from Minneapolis to Los Angeles recent ly and, like most travelers, I've almost memorized the standard safety announcement m ade by the flight attendants. It goes something like this:
> Good afternoon and welcome to Flight 345, service to Los Angeles International Airport. We appreciate your full attention to this important safety announcement. This 747 aircraft is equipped with four emergency e xits, two in the front of the plane and two in the aft. Be sure to identify the n earest exit to you, which may be behind you. If the plane should lose pressure, an o xygen mask will drop from the compartment above your seat. Reach up, pull down on  the mask until the tubing is fully extended, place the mask over your nose an d mouth, secure it with the elastic band, and breathe normally.
> Passenger seat cushions on this aircraft may be use d as a flotation device and detailed instructions may be found on the safety in formation card in the seat pocket in front of you. Smoking is not permitted at  any time while on board this aircraft. Also, federal law prohibits tampering, di sabling, or destroying these detectors in the lavatories. Your compliance with a ll crew member instructions, all placards, and lighted seat belt and no smoking sign s is required.
> The following electronic devices may not be used du ring takeoff or landing: portable compact disk players, portable computers, and cellular phones, which should be in the off position and stowed. Now, in p reparation for take-off, please fasten your seatbelt, return your seatback and tray  tables to the full upright and locked position. Your carry- on luggage must be sto wed in the overhead compartments or underneath the seat in front of you . On behalf of all Mar Vista
> Today we are on an airplane, listening to the openi ng, or beginning, announcement from the “flight attendants.” The “fli ght attendant” is the man or woman who works in the plane that gives you your co ffee and gives you safety information and so forth. A “safety announcement” is what we listen to today. A “safety announcement” is the announcement the fligh t attendant makes to tell you all the rules that you have to follow on the ai rplane. The announcement begins by saying that “this is flight 345, service to Los Angeles International Airport.” “Service to” just means that is where the  plane is going. It’s where this plane is going to land. You can sometimes be on a p lane that is going to more than one city so they may say, “Service to Los Ange les International Airport and continuing on,” or going on, to, for example, San F rancisco. So, when they say, “continuing on,” they mean this plane is going to s top and then it’s going to go somewhere else.

The airplane that we are in here is also called an “aircraft,” all one word, “aircraft” is the same as the “airplane.” It’s the actual plan e you are in. The announcement says that this aircraft is “equipped with four emer gency exits.” When we say it’s “equipped” – something that is “equipped” (equipped ), we mean it has. It’s usually something we talk about for a machine or, in this case a plane, or a car. You can say your car is “equipped with air-conditio ning” – means it has air- conditioning in it. “Four emergency exits.”  The “e mergency exits,” you probably know, are the doors in the plane where you escape f rom if you are in an emergency. There are usually a couple of these door s. In this announcement there were two in the front of the plane and two in  the “aft.” “Aft” (aft) is the back of the plane – just means the back of a vehicle, in  this case a plane. The flight attendant says that “You should look for the neares t exit to you, which may be behind you,” meaning you may have to go back in the  plane to the closest door.

The announcement continues that, “If the plane shou ld lose pressure, an oxygen mask will drop from the compartment above.” For a p lane to fly, in order for you to breathe, it has to be “pressurized,” meaning the  air has to be “pressurized” so that you can breathe it. If an airplane loses press ure if, for example, there’s a problem or there is a hole in the plane and it lose s pressure, you will not be able to breathe and that’s why airplanes have oxygen mas ks. An “oxygen mask” – a mask, you probably know, is what goes over your fac e. An “oxygen mask” is something that goes over your mouth and your nose a nd you can breathe oxygen in order to breathe properly. It comes down from the “compartment”

above your seat. “Compartment” just means a place w here something is stored – something that you keep something. Anything can be a “compartment” but we use this term especially in airplanes. The “compart ment above you” just means in the space above you in the airplane.

Now, the instructions here are to “reach up,” in ot her words, to put your hand up and take the oxygen mask until the “tubing is fully  extended.” The “tubing” is – a “tube” is a round, usually hollow, meaning it’s emp ty inside, thing that you can put water or gas.  In this case, oxygen can go through.  You can have “tubes” in all sorts of places. Here, you have “tubing” from the c ompartment in the plane, on the top, to the mask so the oxygen goes through. for something to be “fully extended” just means that it is out as far as it ca n go, you have the tube so that it is as long as you can get it. The instructions are to put this mask over your nose and mouth, “secure it with an elastic band and brea the normally.” “To secure something” means to make sure that it isn’t going to move. So, you’re “securing it,” meaning you’re putting it on your face and you ’re using an elastic band. An “elastic band” is something that stretches and we u se those to keep something on our head like a mask. You can also use an “elast ic band” for putting something together, for example, you have a bunch of pens. I have a bunch of pens sitting in front of me and they are put togeth er with a rubber band or “elastic band.”

A “seat cushion” is what you are sitting on in the airplane, and “seat cushions” can be used in an emergency as “flotation devices.”  The verb “to float” means to stay on top of the water. It doesn’t go down into the water. It doesn’t sink (sink). The opposite of “to float” is to sink. A “flotation  device” is just a fancy way of saying something that will not sink. So, if you can ’t swim, you have a “flotation device” that keeps you, or your head above water. A irplanes in the United States also have little cards, little pieces of paper, tha t give these instructions on how to use certain emergency parts of the airplane. Now, w e call this a “safety information card,” information about safety. And yo u can find these in the “seat pocket” in front of you. The “seat pocket” is the p ocket that is on the seat that is directly in front of you.  It’s on the back of the seat in front of you and it’s where you put magazines and newspapers and the “safety in formation card.”

In the United States, “smoking” is not allowed on a ny airplane and the announcement says, “Smoking is not permitted while on board this aircraft. To be “on board” an airplane means to be on the airplane,  to be physically – your body is present on the airplane. When you get onto an ai rplane, the verb we use is “to board” (board). “To board” an airplane means to get  on the airplane. The opposite would be “to de-board” (de-board), to get off an airplane. And when you are on it, we say you are “on board.” “Federal law, ” which is to say, the United

States government, prohibits tampering, disabling, or destroying smoke detectors in lavatories. “To tamper with something” (tamper) is a verb which means to change it, to do something to it so that it doesn’t  work. “To disable” is similar. “Disable” (disable) is a verb, which means to make a machine or something to stop working, so very similar with tampering. “Tamp ering” doesn’t necessarily mean that you break it, but you change it somehow, whereas, “to disable” means to make the machine not work.” The “detectors” or “ smoke detectors” are, of course, those little, usually round things that if there’s smoke, it begins to buzz; it begins to make a noise. These are in the “lavatorie s.” A “lavatory” is just another word in English for a bathroom or the restroom.

The announcement also says that “Your compliance wi th all crew member instructions, all placards, and lighted seatbelts s igns is required.” “Compliance” is a noun. The verb is “to comply” (comply). “To compl y” means to follow someone’s orders, to do what you are told to do. “C rew members” are anyone who works for the airline that is on the airplane. That would be the pilot, the co- pilot, the flight attendants, so forth; these are a ll “crew members” (crew), “crew member”. A “placard” (placard) – a “placard” is jus t a fancy word in English for a “sign.” So, there’s a sign that says, “No smoking.”  That could be called a “placard.” The electronic devices that you can take  on an airplane, such as a compact disc player, a computer, cellular phone or mobile phone, cannot be used “during take-off or landing.” “Take-off,” and the verb is “to take off,” means when the plane is going up into the air. And “to la nd,” or a “landing” as a noun, means when the plane is coming back down on the gro und. The cellular phone or mobile phones have to be in the “off position” –  means they have to be turned off and “stowed.” “To stow something” (stow) just m eans to store it, to put it in a certain place so that it is safe. We use that word a lot when talking about airplanes or ships or boats. We talk about “stowing  planes”-- just means where you store something, where you put something.

The announcement finishes by saying that you should  “fasten your seatbelt.” Of course, your “seatbelt,” all one word, “seatbelt” is what goes around your waist so that you don’t fall out of your seat if there’s an emergency. It also tells you to “return your seatback and tray tables into the full  upright and locked position.” Couple of different phrases or words here, first of  all, “seatback.” “Seatback” is the part of your seat, or the chair if you will, yo u’re sitting in – that’s the part of the seat that goes back and forth. So, you can lean bac k. You can put your seat back. The verb we would use here is “to recline.” You can “recline” (recline) your seat back, but when you are taking off and landing,  it has to be in its “upright” position. “To be upright,” all one word (upright), means to be straight, not to be leaning forward or leaning backwards.

The “tray table” is that little piece of plastic th at comes down from the seat in front of you where you can put your meal and your coffee and your books. It’s like a little table. A “tray table” is a small table that has to be also in its upright and locked position. You have to put the little lock on  it so it doesn’t fall down. Finally, you’re told that, “Your carry-on luggage must be st owed in the overhead compartments.” “Carry-on luggage,” you can guess, is the luggage that you “carry on,” or take on to the airplane. The opposit e of “carry-on” would be your “checked luggage.” Your “checked luggage” is the lu ggage that is down below, underneath the airplane. The “carry-on” is what you  put either above your head, and those spaces above your head are called the “ov erhead compartments.” We sometimes call these the “overhead bins” (bins), sa me thing as a compartment. Or they have to be put in the seat in front of you.

Now let’s listen to the announcement again this tim e at a native rate of speech.

[start of story]

I had to fly from Minneapolis to Los Angeles recent ly and, like most travelers, I've almost memorized the standard safety announcement m ade by the flight attendants. It goes something like this:

Good afternoon and welcome to Flight 345, service to Los Angeles International Airport. We appreciate your full attention to this important safety announcement. This 747 aircraft is equipped with four emergency e xits, two in the front of the plane and two in the aft. Be sure to identify the n earest exit to you, which may be behind you. If the plane should lose pressure, an o xygen mask will drop from the compartment above your seat. Reach up, pull down on  the mask until the tubing is fully extended, place the mask over your nose an d mouth, secure it with the elastic band, and breathe normally.

Passenger seat cushions on this aircraft may be use d as a flotation device and detailed instructions may be found on the safety in formation card in the seat pocket in front of you. Smoking is not permitted at  any time while on board this aircraft. Also, federal law prohibits tampering, di sabling, or destroying these detectors in the lavatories. Your compliance with a ll crew member instructions, all placards, and lighted seat belt and no smoking sign s is required.

The following electronic devices may not be used du ring takeoff or landing: portable compact disk players, portable computers, and cellular phones which should be in the off position and stowed. Now, in p reparation for take-off, please fasten your seatbelt, return your seatback and tray  tables to the full upright and locked position. Your carry- on luggage must be sto wed in the overhead

compartments or underneath the seat in front of you . On behalf of all Mar Vista Airline employees, we'd like to thank you for selec ting us today. We hope you enjoy your flight.

[end of story]

That’s it for this somewhat long version of ESL Pod cast.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. W e’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

ESL Podcast is a production of the Center for Educa tional Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 . No part of this podcast may be sold or redistributed without the expressed writ ten permission of the Center for Educational Development.

