# Car Trouble

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 27 – Car Trouble.  

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 27. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

In this episode, we're going to discuss having trou ble with your car. Let's get started. > I was driving down the Santa Monica Freeway yesterd ay, headed toward downtown, when all of a sudden I saw my engine ligh t come on. Needless to say, that's not the sort of thing one likes to see. So, I immediately pulled over to the side of the road and parked on the shoulder. I popp ed the hood and looked to see what the problem might be. I'm no mechanic – I barely know how to check the oil and the wiper fluid – but perhaps something  would jump out at me. 
> The car didn't overheat, since there was no steam c oming out of the radiator. I checked the battery cables, and the battery was def initely not dead. I didn't know quite what else to do, so I pulled out my cell phon e and called AAA for a tow to the nearest repair shop. I started worrying about a ll the things it could be: the fuel pump, the transmission, the electrical system. Who knows? I just had new brakes put in a month ago, so I knew it couldn't be that.  
> The tow truck finally arrived and we went to a near by mechanic. He checked everything and then told me that he had found the p roblem: the engine light sensor was broken! I now had to take it to the deal er to get it fixed. Well, at least it didn't end up costing me an arm and a leg.

Today we’re talking about a common problem if you d rive a car, and that is “car trouble.” “Car trouble” (trouble), or “automobile t rouble,” is when you have problems with your car. I said, “I was driving down  the Santa Monica Freeway.” “To drive down” means the same as “to drive on.” Bu t most people don’t say, “I’m driving on the street.” They say, “I’m driving down  the street,” meaning I’m moving in a certain direction. We also drive down h ighways and freeways. A “freeway” (freeway) is a major road where there are  no stop signs. In this story, I was driving on the “Santa Monica Freeway.”   

 In the United States, we have a national system of roads. These roads are called the “interstate highways” and all of these highways  have numbers. The odd- numbered freeways go north and south, and the even- numbered freeways go east and west. So, Interstate 35, or Highway 35, go es from north to south, and Highway 94 goes from east to west. In some states, such as California, we give a name to the freeway in addition to its number. The name is usually where the freeway starts or where the freeway ends. So, the S anta Monica Freeway, which is also called “the I-10” or “Interstate 10,” begin s in Santa Monica, just about a mile from me.  

As I was driving, “all of a sudden” – suddenly – “I  saw my engine light come on.” The “engine (engine) light” is a little light that tells you that there is something wrong with your engine, or your motor. The engine l ight is in front of you when you are driving. It is just behind the steering whe el, which is what you turn to move the car left and right. The area in front of t he steering wheel is called the “dashboard.” The “dashboard” (dashboard) is where y ou can see how fast you are driving and how much gas you have left. And, if  you have a problem with your engine, the dashboard is where the engine ligh t will come on.  

In most cars, there are several different kinds of lights: the engine light, the oil light, and so forth. I said that I saw the engine l ight “come on.” We use the verb “to come on” when a light activates automatically o r electronically all on its own – we say it “comes on.” I wouldn’t say the engine lig ht “turns on,” because there isn’t a person actually turning it on. I then said,  “Needless to say, that’s not the sort of thing one likes to see.” “Needless to say” means obviously. When a person says, “Needless to say, if it’s raining you should bring an umbrella,” this means it is obvious that you should do that.  

After I saw my engine light come on, “I pulled over  to the side of the road and parked on the shoulder.” “To pull over” means to mo ve your car off the road or the street or the freeway. That is the expression: “to pull over.” If a police officer tells you to pull over, that’s usually bad news. Th at means that he or she is going to give you a ticket. A “ticket” is a fine for doin g something wrong when you are driving, like going too fast, which of course you s hould never do.  

I pulled over and parked “on the shoulder.” The wor d “shoulder” (shoulder) here is the same as the shoulder of your arm, but when I  say, “I parked on the shoulder,” it means the side of a freeway or a high way. There isn’t a shoulder on most streets; we usually use the word “shoulder” fo r freeways or highways. After I pulled over, “I popped the hood” to see what the problem might be. “To pop (pop) the hood (hood)” means to open the hood. The hood is in the front of your  

car, and it’s like a door that you open to see the engine. In most cars nowadays, to pop or to open the hood you need to press a butt on inside your car that unlocks the hood.  

I said, “I’m no mechanic.” A “mechanic” (mechanic) is a person who fixes cars. “I barely know how to check the oil and the wiper flui d.” “To barely know” something means to know only a very small amount, t o know only a little. “To check the oil” means to look and see that there is enough motor oil in the engine. “Motor oil” is a liquid made of petroleum that your  engine, or your motor, needs in order to run.  

“Wiper fluid” means windshield wiper fluid. A “wind shield” (windshield) is the window in the front of your car. We don’t use the t erm “window” for that window; we have a special word for it, which is “windshield .” The “wiper” (wiper) is the little stick that is on the windshield. You usually  have two of them. They go back and forth to clean the windshield. And “wiper fluid ” (fluid) is the liquid that helps to clean the windshield when the wipers are moving. 

I opened the hood to see if anything would “jump ou t at me.” We use the expression “to jump out at” when we are looking at many different things and we’re trying to identify something, but we’re not q uite sure what that something is. So, for example, someone gives you a list of na mes and says, “There’s someone you know on this list.” But he doesn’t tell  you the name of the person, so you look at the list and hope that some name wil l “jump out at you,” meaning you will suddenly notice it. When something jumps o ut at you, you might say, “Oh, there it is!”  

I said that the car “didn’t overheat.” “To overheat ” (overheat) means that the car becomes too hot. There is something in the front of  the car called the “radiator” (radiator) that has water in it to keep the engine cool. But when a car overheats, the radiator water becomes so hot that you begin to  see steam coming out. “Steam” (steam) is water in a gas or vapor state. W hen you boil water in a pan, steam will come off the top of the water. When stea m comes out of your radiator, that means that your car engine is too hot: it over heated. 

But that wasn’t the problem. Then I checked my “bat tery cables.” Your “battery” (battery) is what runs the electrical parts of your  car. The battery is connected to the engine with “cables,” which are long strings of  metal. When a battery stops working, we say that it “dies.” Just like a living thing can die, a battery can die, and when a battery doesn’t work anymore, we say it is “dead” – there’s no more power left in it. But my battery wasn’t dead.  

I said that I didn’t know what else to do, so I “ca lled AAA for a tow to the nearest repair shop.” “AAA” stands for American Automobile Association. It’s a national, private organization kind of like an insurance comp any. I think it costs around $50 or $60 a year to become a member, and if your c ar breaks down or stops working, you can call them and they will tow you so mewhere to get your car fixed.  

“To tow” a car is to have another vehicle – in this  case, a “tow truck” – pull your car somewhere. That’s a “tow (tow) truck,” not “toe ” (toe) like a toe on your foot. The tow truck tows your car to a repair shop. A “re pair (repair) shop” is a place where a “mechanic” – someone who fixes cars – works . We sometimes call these repair shops “garages.” “I need to take my ca r to the garage” means I need to get it fixed at a repair shop by a mechanic.  

I said that there were several things that could be  wrong with my car: “the fuel pump, the transmission, the electrical system.” The  “fuel (fuel) pump” is a little thing in your motor, in the front of your car, that  pushes the gasoline into the engine. The “transmission” is the gears of your car . A “gear” is a wheel that controls the speed of your car. If you have a manua l transmission, you can put your car in first gear, second gear, third gear, an d so forth. Or you could have an automatic transmission that changes gears for you. The “electrical system” in your car is what controls your lights and all of th e things that use electricity.  

I had “new brakes put in a month ago.” “To put in” or to install brakes means that you put in new brake parts. The “brakes” (brakes) a re what you use to stop a car. You hit the brakes. There are two pieces of metal i n your car underneath the dashboard. These are called “pedals (pedals).” One pedal you press to go fast or slow: that is your gas pedal. The other pedal you p ress to slow or stop your car – that is your brake pedal.  

The tow truck arrived and “we went to a nearby” – o r close – “mechanic.” He checked everything and he told me that my “engine l ight sensor was broken.” A “sensor” (sensor) is a thing that can detect or can  find out if there is a problem. If the sensor is “broken,” or not working, it could co me on even though there isn’t a problem. So, my engine light sensor was not working , but there was no serious problem with my car.  

I said I now had to take it in to the “dealer” to g et it fixed. A “dealer,” or a “car dealer,” is someone who sells cars. And in the Unit ed States, the company that sells the car usually has its own mechanics and its  own repair shop where you need to get any specialized work done. Finally, I s aid that “at least it didn’t end up costing me an arm and a leg.” The expression “to co st an arm and a leg” means  

to be very expensive. Something that costs a lot of  money would cost you an arm and a leg. 

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed. > I was driving down the Santa Monica Freeway yesterd ay, headed toward downtown, when all of a sudden I saw my engine ligh t come on. Needless to say, that's not the sort of thing one likes to see. So, I immediately pulled over to the side of the road and parked on the shoulder. I popp ed the hood and looked to see what the problem might be. I'm no mechanic – I barely know how to check the oil and the wiper fluid – but perhaps something  would jump out at me. 
> The car didn't overheat, since there was no steam c oming out of the radiator. I checked the battery cables, and the battery was def initely not dead. I didn't know quite what else to do, so I pulled out my cell phon e and called AAA for a tow to the nearest repair shop. I started worrying about a ll the things it could be: the fuel pump, the transmission, the electrical system. Who knows? I just had new brakes put in a month ago, so I knew it couldn't be that.  
> The tow truck finally arrived and we went to a near by mechanic. He checked everything and then told me that he had found the p roblem: the engine light sensor was broken! I now had to take it to the deal er to get it fixed. Well, at least it didn't end up costing me an arm and a leg.

Thanks to our fantastic scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse,  for her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, California,  I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast. 

ESL Podcast is produced by the Center for Education al Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 .

