# Missing Person, Part 5: ¡§No Police.¡¨

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 65 – Missing Person , Part 5: “No Police.”

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 65. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode is the fifth of our 12-part special se ries: Missing Person , a murder mystery. In our previous episode, Dr. Reeves and his student Anne Prado met with Bill. Bill is Anne’s brother-in-law. We learne d that Bill’s wife, Sarah – who is Anne’s sister – has been kidnapped and that the kid nappers are demanding a large ransom: $500,000. Bill said that both he and his wife were kidnapped, but that the kidnappers let him go so he could get the ransom money for his wife.

Now, we continue with part 5 of Missing Person : “No Police.” > “When does he want the money?” I asked.
> “Tomorrow. He said he would call me this afternoon and tell me where to make the drop,” Bill said. “He also made it crystal clea r that we are not to call the police. If I don’t hand over the money by the deadl ine, he said he’s going to kill Sarah!” Bill put his face in his hands. He turned to Anne, “Geez, Anne, I don’t know what to do!”
> “We’ll get the money, Bill, don’t worry!” Anne said . “You know that my parents left Sarah and me a lot of money when they died.” Anne p ut her hand on Bill’s shoulder.
> Anne and Sarah’s parents had owned a very large com puter company in Los Angeles, Prado Computers, Incorporated. When they d ied a few years ago, Mr. and Mrs. Prado left their two daughters a very larg e pile of cash. That’s how Anne got the money to go to USC and how she could a fford her cell phone, her Mercedes, and her apartment on the beach.
> While Anne and Bill comforted each other, I called the young waitress over and asked for another iced tea. She wasn’t very friendl y, but then most waitresses in L.A. aren’t. They all really want to be actresses.
> Our episode begins with Dr. Reeves, the narrator of  the story, asking Bill when the kidnappers want the money. Bill replies, “Tomor row,” and says that the kidnappers will tell him “where to make the drop.” “To make the drop” means to leave the money. The term “drop” (drop) is used by both criminals and police to mean money or information or something that is bein g left for someone else to pick up. So, the kidnappers will tell Bill “where to make the drop,” meaning where to leave the money.

Bill says that the kidnappers “made it crystal clea r” that they were not to call the police. “To make something crystal clear” means to make it very clear, so there is

no misunderstanding. A “crystal” (crystal) is a roc k that is like a piece of glass that you can see through. So, “crystal clear” means  very clear. Bill says that if he doesn’t “hand over the money by the deadline,” the kidnapper is going to kill Sarah. “To hand over” here means “to give.” It is u sually used in situations in which you don’t really want to give the other perso n the money or whatever it is they want. So, if a robber tells you, “Hand over al l your money,” it means “Give me all your money,” even if you don’t want to.

Bill then turns to Anne and says, “Geez Anne, I don ’t know what to do.” The expression “geez” (geez) is one of those expression s you might use when you’re confused or you’re upset or maybe you’re mad. For e xample, you might say, “Geez, I just missed my train this morning,” or “Ge ez, I wish I had seen that movie last weekend.”

Anne tells Bill that he shouldn’t worry about the m oney, because Sarah and Anne’s parents had left them a lot of money when th ey died. Our narrator, Dr. Reeves, then explains that Anne and Sarah’s parents  had owned a computer company in Los Angeles, and when they died, they le ft their two daughters “a very large pile of cash.” “Cash,” of course, is mon ey, and a “large pile” would mean a lot of money. A “pile” (pile) is a stack – w hen you put one thing on top of another. You can pile things up. You can have a pil e of paper, which would be many papers on top of each other. And when you say someone has a “pile of cash,” you mean they have a lot of money.

Anne and Bill then comfort each other. “To comfort”  someone is to talk to them, to sympathize with them, to try to help them. Dr. R eeves, meanwhile, asks the waitress for another iced tea. While he is drinking  his tea, he says, “The thought occurred to me that the kidnappers must know Anne a nd Sarah.” The expression “the thought occurred to me” is another way of sayi ng, “I thought.” It is a little more complicated way of saying the same thing. “The  thought occurred to me that I should go on vacation.” That would be the sa me as “I think I should go on vacation.” I do actually think I should go on vacat ion.

Dr. Reeves then asks Anne and Bill to think of any enemies they might have, people who might want to hurt them. Anne and Bill s pend the next 20 minutes “coming up with a list of people.” “To come up with ” something means to think about a problem or puzzle for a long time and then write or say whatever solutions you thought of. For example, “Come up wit h five people whom you really want to meet” means think about it and then either tell me or write down the names of those five people. You can also say, “ I came up with the answer,” meaning you thought of the answer after thinking ab out it for a while.

After making their list of people, Anne and Bill “g ot the list down to two prime suspects.” “To get something down to” means to redu ce it, to make it less. “At the Italian restaurant, I wanted to order lasagna and p izza and raviolis, but I couldn’t order all three, so I got it down to two choices: the pizza or the ravioli.” “To get something down to” means to reduce the number of so mething.

“Prime suspect” is a term we use for someone who ha s probably committed a crime or done something wrong. A “suspect” (suspect ) is someone who we think might have committed the crime. And the word “prime ” (prime) here means the number one or the most likely suspect. The two prim e suspects in this case are “ex-employees” or former employees – people who use d to work for Prado Computer, Incorporated. These two people had been “ fired” from the company. “To be fired” means to be told to leave your job, to be told that you can no longer work there.

Dr. Reeves tells Anne and Bill that they “need to g et some rest.” Notice that “rest” is used here as a noun and not as a verb. You could  tell someone, “You need to rest,” and in that case “rest” would be a verb. But  you could also say, as Dr. Reeves does, “You need to get some rest,” meaning y ou haven’t had enough rest and therefore, you need to rest more. Anne wan ts to go with Dr. Reeves, but Dr. Reeves says, “You need to get some rest and in eed to look into these names you gave me.” Bill then adds, “No police,” me aning no police should be involved. Dr. Reeves agrees and says, “Not yet, any way.”

At the end of the episode, Dr. Reeves says, “I had a funny feeling that there was more to this mystery than any of us thought.” “To h ave a funny feeling” means to suspect or to think that there is something wrong. “I have a funny feeling that my neighbor is taking some of my roses at night,” mean ing I suspect that this is what is happening. I don’t know for sure, but that’s wha t I’m thinking. The expression “more to this mystery than any of us thought” means  there is something else going on here, something more that we don’t know ab out yet.

On the next episode of Missing Person , we’ll meet a friend of Dr. Reeves who will try to help him to solve or to find the answer to t his crime.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

“When does he want the money?” I asked.

“Tomorrow. He said he would call me this afternoon and tell me where to make the drop,” Bill said. “He also made it crystal clea r that we are not to call the police. If I don’t hand over the money by the deadl ine, he said he’s going to kill Sarah!” Bill put his face in his hands. He turned to Anne, “Geez, Anne, I don’t know what to do!”

“We’ll get the money, Bill, don’t worry!” Anne said . “You know that my parents left Sarah and me a lot of money when they died.” Anne p ut her hand on Bill’s shoulder.

Anne and Sarah’s parents had owned a very large com puter company in Los Angeles, Prado Computers, Incorporated. When they d ied a few years ago, Mr. and Mrs. Prado left their two daughters a very larg e pile of cash. That’s how Anne got the money to go to USC and how she could a fford her cell phone, her Mercedes, and her apartment on the beach.

While Anne and Bill comforted each other, I called the young waitress over and asked for another iced tea. She wasn’t very friendl y, but then most waitresses in L.A. aren’t. They all really want to be actresses.

Drinking my tea and thinking about the case, the th ought occurred to me that the kidnapper must know Anne and Sarah or at least know  that they had a lot of money and could get it quickly.

“I know this is a difficult time, Bill,” I interrup ted, “but I need to ask you and Anne a few questions. Does your family have any enemies?  Anyone who might want to hurt you?” Anne looked at Bill, and they both began  to think.

The two of them spent the next 20 minutes coming up  with a list of people who might want to harm them. They got the list down to two prime suspects, both of whom used to work for the Prado Computer business b efore they were fired. They gave me the names of the two ex-employees.

“This will be a good place for me to start,” I told  them. “Now, you two need to get some rest. I’ll drive you both back to Bill’s apart ment.”

“No, Dr. Reeves, I want to go with you!” Anne insis ted. I found it very hard to say no, but I had to. I needed time to be alone and to get some advice from an old friend.

“I’m really sorry, Anne,” I apologized, “but you ne ed to rest and I need time to look into these names you gave me.”

 “No police!” Bill quickly added.

“Don’t worry, Bill,” I told him, “there’ll be no po lice involved. Not yet, anyway.”

The three of us got up and started walking toward m y car. I had a funny feeling that there was more to this mystery than any of us thought.

[end of story]

On the next episode of Missing Person , we’ll meet a friend of Dr. Reeves who will try to help him solve the mystery. Be sure to come back for part 6: “Kathy (Again).”

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

