# Taking Public Transportation

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 35: Taking Public Transportation to Work

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 35. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to see Lucy go to work  by way of public transportation. Let's get started.

[Start of story]

I like my job but it takes over an hour to get ther e from my part of town.  First, I walk three blocks to the subway station and swipe m y monthly pass to get through the turnstile.  I wait on the platform for the first express train.  I get on and since it’s so crowded during the morning hours,  there aren’t any seats and I stand, holding onto a handrail.  At my stop, I get off and transfer to a second train that will get me to Union Station.  This one isn’t as crowded and I manage to find a seat.

When the train gets to Union Station, I get off the  train, go up the stairs, and go out of the front exit to the bus stop.  I get on the B bus to downtown and show my bus pass to the bus driver.  I sit down near the fr ont of the bus and when three more people get on board, the driver starts on the route.  When we get close to my stop, I press the button to signal to the driver  that I need to get off and the bus pulls up to the next stop.  I get off and walk half a block to the building where I work.  It’s a long commute, but I look around eve ry morning and I see that I’m not the only one who has to do it.

[End of story]

Public transportation is anything that the governme nt runs or operates, such as buses, trains, and subways.

Lucy says that she likes her job but that "it takes  over an hour to get there from" her "part of town."  To get there means to arrive.  Her part of town is her area of town.  "First," she says, she walks "three blocks t o the subway station" and swipes her "monthly pass to get through the turnsti le."  A subway, "subway," (one

ESL Podcast 35 - Taking Public Transportation to Wo rk

word) is a train, usually that goes underneath the ground.  In some cities, such as Chicago, they have an elevated train, which they ca ll the El.  Subways are usually, however, below the ground; they're undergr ound.  In fact, in London, the subway is called the Underground or the Tube.

In this story, Lucy walks to the subway station.  A  station, "station," is a place where you can get on and off the subway; that's cal led a subway station.  To get into the subway station, Lucy swipes her monthly pa ss.  To swipe, "swipe," means to take a card, such as a credit card, and to  put it through a machine very quickly so that the machine can read or understand the information on the card.

In the subway system, Lucy has a monthly pass, "pas s."  A pass is like a ticket; it's a ticket for an entire month - for thirty days .  So, she swipes the card through the card reader, we would call it, and that card is  her monthly pass.

After she swipes her monthly pass, she can walk thr ough the turnstile.  The turnstile, "turnstile," (one word) is a machine tha t prevents you from walking through somewhere.  It has a bar and after you pay,  you can then push the bar and the bar will move forward - the bar is just a p iece of metal - and then, the next person has to pay and they can push through wi th the turnstile.  One person goes through at a time, and you'll find turnstiles at subway stations, sometimes at train stations.  If you don't have any money, you c an just jump over the turnstile. I would not recommend that, however, because they m ight arrest you if you don't pay!

Lucy says she waits "on the platform for the first express train."  The platform, "platform," (one word) is the place where you wait for the train or the subway to stop, and then the doors open and you walk onto the  train.  The platform is the place where you wait right next to the tracks, "tra cks."  The tracks are what the trains go on.

Lucy is at the platform and she's waiting "for the first express train."  Express, "express," here means the train that makes the fewe st number of stops.  Express trains, such as in New York, will only stop at some  of the subway stations, not at all of them.  If you want a subway train that stops  at all the stations, you would get what we would call a local train.  This is true  especially in New York City; if you look at their map of the subway, you will see t hat some subway trains are express, meaning they make fewer stops - they don't  stop at every subway station - and some are local.

ESL Podcast 35 - Taking Public Transportation to Wo rk

Lucy gets "on and since it’s so crowded," or becaus e there are so many people there, "there aren’t any seats" and so she has to s tand, and she stands by "holding onto a handrail," "handrail," (one word).  A handrail is a piece of metal that is in a subway train that you can grab onto.  You can hold your hand around this piece of metal so that you don't fall when the  train goes forward and stops; this is called a handrail because it's where you pu t your hand.  Of course, you could also put your hand on the person next to you,  but they may not like that, so use the handrail!

Lucy says that at her stop, or the place where she leaves the train - leaves the subway - she gets off, or exits, and transfers "to a second train."  To transfer, "transfer," as a verb, means to go from one train t o another or from one bus to another.  Your train may not go all the way where y ou want to go, so you may need to transfer to a different train.

Lucy says that she needs to take a second train in order to get to her final destination, which is Union Station.  Union Station  is a train station in downtown Los Angeles.  This train, Lucy says, "isn't as crow ded" - there aren't as many people - it "isn't as crowded" and she manages "to find a seat" - she is able to find a seat.

"When the train gets to Union Station," Lucy gets o ff, or exits - leaves "the train, goes up the stairs" - walks up the stairs - and goe s out "the front exit to the bus stop."  The front exit, "exit," as a noun, means the door where you leave.  You can also use exit as a verb to mean to leave.

Lucy walks out "the front exit to the bus stop."  T he bus stop is the place where, you can guess, the bus stops to pick up people and to drop them off, or to leave them.  The bus stop is like the subway station, but  we don't call it the bus station; we call it the bus stop.  There is actually an expr ession, the bus station, but that's a place where you take a bus to another city; that would be a bus station. Usually there's only one or two of those.  A bus st op is anywhere or anyplace where the bus stops to let people on the bus and le t people off the bus.

Lucy gets "on the B" - the letter "B" - "bus to dow ntown and" shows her "bus pass to the bus driver."  Your bus pass is like your sub way pass.  In this case, you show the pass to the driver; the driver looks at the pass to see that it is a good pass.  Lucy then sits "down near the front of the b us and three more people get on board."  On board, "board," means to be on a tra in, or a plane, or a bus, or a ship.  You may say, "I need to get on board my plan e," that means you need to get onto your plane - you need to go into your plan e.

ESL Podcast 35 - Taking Public Transportation to Wo rk

 Here, Lucy talks about three people getting on boar d, or coming onto and sitting in the bus.  After "three more people get on board, " or get on the bus, "the driver starts on the route."  The route, "route," sometime s called the route (pronounced "root"), both pronunciations are possible, is the p ath or the direction that the bus goes.  It goes down Main Street, then goes on First  Street, then goes down Central Avenue, then takes a left on Seventh Street , and comes back on Waterview Drive.  That would be a route, the street s where the bus goes.  In general, a route is a list of the streets or freewa ys or roads that you take to get somewhere.

Lucy says when she gets close to her stop, she pres ses "the button to signal to the driver that" she needs "to get off."  To signal , "signal," means to indicate - to tell the driver that she needs to get off.  In many  American buses, there's a button or sometimes there's a string that you pull, and it  makes a noise in the front of the bus, and that allows the bus driver to know that yo u want to get off.  It tells the bus driver that you want to get off at the next sto p.  You can also ask the driver, "Can I get off at the next stop?"  Remember, a stop  is anywhere the bus goes to pick up or let out people.

Well, Lucy signals to the driver that she needs to get off at the next stop, and "the bus pulls up to the next stop."  To pull up (two wo rds) means to dive up - to go to. We use that verb especially when we are talking abo ut cars or buses.  Your car can pull up to the house; that means it drives up t o the street where your house is and it stops.  The idea of pulling up usually me ans go forward and then stop.

Lucy gets off, or leaves the bus, and walks a "half  a block to the building where" she works.  A block, "block," is the area between t wo streets.  In most American cities, the blocks are square, so you have two stre ets on both sides and that whole thing is called a block.  The block that I li ve on is not square; it's a very strange, unusual shape, but most cities have blocks  that are square.  We also use that expression when we are talking about dista nce.  Someone may say, "How many blocks is it to the train station?"  You could say, "It is four blocks from here," meaning you have to walk four streets to get  there.

Lucy says that she has "a long commute, but" she lo oks "around every morning" - she looks at the other people - and she sees that  she is "not the only one who has to do it," meaning there are many people who ha ve to commute a long distance.  Some companies now allow their employees  to telecommute. Telecommute, "telecommute," (one word) means that y ou work at home but you call the office to talk to people.

ESL Podcast 35 - Taking Public Transportation to Wo rk

 Now let's listen to the episode, this time at a nor mal speed.

[Start of story]

I like my job but it takes over an hour to get ther e from my part of town.  First, I walk three blocks to the subway station and swipe m y monthly pass to get through the turnstile.  I wait on the platform for the first express train.  I get on and since it’s so crowded during the morning hours,  there aren’t any seats and I stand, holding onto a handrail.  At my stop, I get off and transfer to a second train that will get me to Union Station.  This one isn’t as crowded and I manage to find a seat.

When the train gets to Union Station, I get off the  train, go up the stairs, and go out of the front exit to the bus stop.  I get on the B bus to downtown and show my bus pass to the bus driver.  I sit down near the fr ont of the bus and when three more people get on board, the driver starts on the route.  When we get close to my stop, I press the button to signal to the driver  that I need to get off and the bus pulls up to the next stop.  I get off and walk half a block to the building where I work.  It’s a long commute, but I look around eve ry morning and I see that I’m not the only one who has to do it.

[End of story]

Thanks to our fantastic scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse,  for her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, California,  I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast.

This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com.



