# Making Dinner, Eating Dinner

Welcome English as a Second Language Podcast number  9:  Making Dinner, Eating Dinner.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number nine. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, I’ll talk about making and eating dinner. I especially like the eating part. Let’s get started.

[Start of story]

When I get home, I start on dinner right away.  I c lean off the kitchen counter after putting away the groceries and decide to make  pasta.  I preheat the oven to 375 to bake the bread and to keep the chicken hot u ntil my wife gets home.  I put some water in a pan and turn the burner on high.  W hen the water starts boiling, I put in the pasta and decide to make a salad.  Just then, my wife opens the back door and yells, “I’m home!”  She comes into the kit chen, and helps with chopping the tomatoes to add to the sauce.  She stirs the sa uce until it’s done, while I finish tossing the salad.

I get out the place mats and napkins to set the tab le.  I also make sure that there is a spoon, knife, fork, and plate for each of us.  About 15 minutes later, we sit down at the table in the dining room and talk about  our long day.  My wife says she’ll do the dishes, since I cooked, but of course  I help out by drying them. First, I put some of the leftovers in a Tupperware container and some in plastic wrap and the rest in aluminum foil.  Then I dry the  pans, plates, glasses, and silverware.

[End of story]

In this episode, we are making dinner at the beginn ing, “When I get home, I start on dinner right away.”  Once again, we have one of those two-word verbs in English, “I start on dinner,” that means I begin to  prepare dinner.  So, “I start on dinner right away.  I clean off the kitchen counter  after putting away the groceries.”  The “kitchen counter” (counter) is the  place in your kitchen where you have a long, flat top or board where you can prepar e food and you can put things on, it's like the table almost.  But usually in a k itchen, you have cabinets or cupboards, where you store things, and on top you h ave a counter.  A “counter”

ESL Podcast 9 -  Making and Eating Dinner, and Wash ing Up

is a general word that refers to the top of somethi ng, usually somewhere where you do something on top of it.  In this case, the k itchen counter is where you prepare food.

Well, “I clean off the kitchen counter after” I put  “away the groceries.”  The “groceries” (groceries) – plural –are the food that  I buy at the market.  We sometimes call a supermarket a grocery store - a pl ace that you buy groceries - buy food that you bring home and prepare and eat at  home.

I decided “to make pasta.”  So, “I preheat the oven  to 375.”  “To preheat” (preheat) really means the same here as to heat, bu t if you look at the instructions for making food, what we would call the “recipe” (recipe) – the recipe for making food, usually it begins, if you are goin g to be cooking something in the oven, by telling you to preheat the oven.  That jus t means to turn it on so that when you are ready, when it is hot, you can put the  food in to cook.  “Pre” (pre) means before or to do something before.

So, “I preheat the oven to 375,” in other words, 37 5 degrees Fahrenheit.  I preheat it because I want “to bake the bread and ke ep the chicken hot until my wife gets home.”  “To bake” (bake) is to cook somet hing, usually in an oven.  So, I open the oven door, I put in the bread, I put in the chicken, and then I close the door.  My wife is going to be home late so I want t o keep the chicken hot - I want to make sure that it stays hot.

I put some water in a pan. A “pan” is what you use to cook something in.  So, “I put some water in a pan and I turn the burner on hi gh.”  The “burner” (burner) is on top of what we would call your “stove” (stove). Your burners are for cooking food, where you have the heat comes from the bottom  and you put the pan on top of the heat.  So, if you are going to boil some  water - make the water hot - you would put it in a pan and then put it on top of  a burner, and the burner is part of your stove.  Usually, stoves and ovens are one m achine, one - in one single piece in many American kitchens.  In my kitchen, the stove is on top of the oven.

I'm going to boil some water.  “To boil” (boil) mea ns to make the one of very hot until you start to see bubbles.  The average temper ature is 212 degrees Fahrenheit, or 100 degrees Celsius, in order to boi l water.  Well, “when the water starts boiling” - when it starts to make bubbles be cause it is very hot - “I put in the pasta.”  I take the pasta - the pasta “noodles” (no odles) - the little pieces of pasta, we call those noodles - and I put them into the boi ling water so they can cook.

ESL Podcast 9 -  Making and Eating Dinner, and Wash ing Up

Then I decide I want “to make a salad” because I'm very hungry.  Well, just as I decide to make the salad, “just then, my wife opens  the back door.”  “Just then” - that expression means at that time - at that same t ime - “my wife opens the back door” - the door to the house in the back, the oppo site would be the front door. She yells, “I'm home!”  That's what you would say w hen you come home to someone who is already there, you would say, “I'm h ome!”  You wouldn't say, “I've arrived,” or “I'm here,” you would say, “I'm home.”

My wife comes into the kitchen and helps me chop the tomatoes.  “To chop” (chop) means to cut something into small pieces.  W e chop tomatoes - we make them into smaller pieces - and we add them to the p asta sauce that's the red liquid that we're going to put over the pasta.  My wife “stirs the sauce until it’s done.”  “To stir” (stir) when you are cooking means  to take a spoon and put it into the pan and move the spoon back and forth so that y ou are mixing what is in the pan.

So, my wife is stirring the sauce - the pasta sauce  - the tomato sauce “until it's done” - until it is ready - until it is cooked, “wh ile I finish tossing the salad.”  So, she is stirring the sauce and at the same time, I a m finishing the salad, and I finished by tossing it.  “To toss” (toss) a salad m eans to mix the salad together. In a salad, you often have lettuce and maybe tomato es, other food, other vegetables, and you want to mix them together.  Oft en you put in a salad “dressing” (dressing).  Salad dressing is a liquid,  often made from some oil, that gives a better taste to your salad.  So, you toss t he salad in order to mix everything up.

That verb, to toss, can also mean to throw, usually  to throw something to someone else.  Someone may say, “Toss me that pen,”  they mean throw me that pen.

Well, I am “tossing the salad” here - mixing it up,  “I get out the place mats and napkins to set the table.”  The “place (place) mats  (mats)” are things that you put underneath the plate and the spoon, fork, and knife  so that the table doesn't get dirty; we call those place mats.  They can be plast ic; they can be made out of cloth, and they are used to protect your table.

So, “I get out the place mats and the napkins to se t the table.”  A “napkin” (napkin) is like a little towel that you use.  In c ase you need to wipe your face while you are eating, you can use your napkin, and it's common in American restaurants and in houses for people to put the nap kin on their legs while they are sitting - on the top of their legs, which we wo uld call the “lap” - on your “lap”

ESL Podcast 9 -  Making and Eating Dinner, and Wash ing Up

(lap) you put the napkin while you are eating.  “To  set” (set) the table means to put all of the things that you need on the table - plates, spoons, knives, forks, and so forth.  That is to set the table - to make the t able ready so you can eat.

“About 15 minutes” after I set the table, my wife a nd I sit at the table - “we sit down at the table in the dining room and talk about  our long day.”  The “dining room” (dining) is a place where you eat.  “To dine”  as a verb, (dine) means to eat. So, the dining room is the room in your house where  you eat your meals.  My wife and I “talk about our long day,” meaning we ha d many things happen today, and maybe we are very tired, so we had a long day.

“My wife says that she’ll do the dishes.”  “To do t he dishes” means the same as to wash the dishes.  My wife offers to “do the dish es” because “I cooked, but of course,” since I am a wonderful husband, “I help ou t by drying” the dishes.  “To help out” means the same here as to help.  But if w e are talking about helping another person do something, maybe something that w e don't have to do, but we want to be nice, we would say we help them out.

So, I helped my wife out by drying the dishes.  “Fi rst,' I have to “put some of the leftovers in a Tupperware container.”  “Leftovers” (leftovers) – all one word – is extra food - food that you did not eat.  At the end  of your dinner - at the end of your meal - if you want to keep some of that food, we call it leftovers.  And in this case, I'm going to put the leftovers into a small p lastic box that has a top on it. We call that kind of little box a “container” (cont ainer).  We usually refer to these plastic boxes that we put food in as Tupperware con tainers.  “Tupperware” (Tupperware) is actually a company that makes these  small plastic containers for food.  Even if you don't have a container made by t hat company, many people just call it “my Tupperware” - the Tupperware conta iners – that means the plastic boxes that you can put food into.

Well, some of the food, I put in a plastic wrap.  A  “plastic wrap” (wrap) is a thin, clear piece of plastic that I put food into, and we  call it a “wrap” (wrap) because we put it around something.  To wrap something is t o put something around it, usually to keep it cold, or to keep it warm, or to keep it fresh when we are talking about food.  We use that same word, wrap, for putti ng paper around a present or a gift that you are giving someone.  The paper is c alled wrapping paper.

You can also put food in aluminum foil.  “Aluminum”  (aluminum) is a kind of metal.  It's usually a silver color.  “Foil” (foil)  is like a plastic wrap but it's made from aluminum.  It's a - it's like a long, flat she et that you can put around

ESL Podcast 9 -  Making and Eating Dinner, and Wash ing Up

something to keep the food in your refrigerator or in your freezer, where you have even colder temperatures. At the end of the story, I dry the pans, the plates , the glasses, and the silverware. The silverware, remember, is the spoon, knife, fork  that you use when you eat.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a regul ar speed.

[Start of story]

When I get home, I start on dinner right away.  I c lean off the kitchen counter after putting away the groceries and decide to make  pasta.  I preheat the oven to 375 to bake the bread and to keep the chicken hot u ntil my wife gets home.  I put some water in a pan and turn the burner on high.  W hen the water starts boiling, I put in the pasta and decide to make a salad.  Just then, my wife opens the back door and yells, “I’m home!”  She comes into the kit chen, and helps with chopping the tomatoes to add to the sauce.  She stirs the sa uce until it’s done, while I finish tossing the salad.

I get out the place mats and napkins to set the tab le.  I also make sure that there is a spoon, knife, fork, and plate for each of us.  About 15 minutes later, we sit down at the table in the dining room and talk about  our long day.  My wife says she’ll do the dishes, since I cooked, but of course  I help out by drying them. First, I put some of the leftovers in a Tupperware container and some in plastic wrap and the rest in aluminum foil.  Then I dry the  pans, plates, glasses, and silverware.

[End of story]

Her scripts are more satisfying than any good meal.   I speak, of course, of the work of our scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan, t hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com.





