# Making a Presentation

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 57 – Making a Presentation. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 57. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

In this episode, we're going to discuss giving a pr esentation for a business meeting or for a class in school. Let's get started . > I don't normally get stage fright, but the thought of getting up in front of my colleagues to give a presentation always gives me b utterflies. But I have no choice; my boss asked me to do it, so I will. 
> I set up my projector and PowerPoint program on my laptop. Clearing my voice, I stood up and addressed the 10 people present at t he meeting. I started off by saying, "Good afternoon. I want to thank you for in viting me to talk to you today." I had a clicker in my hand to advance the s lides. "Today I'm going to talk to you about our new product, Provasic. Please  feel free to ask questions as we go along," I said.  
> I then flipped through the slides showing pictures of our product, and concluded by summarizing the main points of my talk with bull et points. I finished by saying, "Thank you for your attention today. My con tact information is on your handout." Whew! I was glad that was over!

We talked today about giving a presentation at a bu siness meeting, for example. I started by saying that I don’t normally get “stage fright.” “Stage fright,” two words, is when you get scared or nervo us when you have to stand up in front of other people and talk. A “stage,” yo u know, is a place where you have a play in a theater, and “fright” is another w ord for “to be afraid.” “Stage fright,” then, is to be afraid of the stage, but he re we use it more generally to mean anytime you are nervous, or anxious, or scared  about standing up and talking to a group of people.  

I said that I had to get up in front of – or stand up in front of – “my colleagues.” “My colleagues,” a noun, refers to the people that I work with or that are in the same profession as I am, the same job type as I am.  These are my colleagues.  

I said that when I have to get up in front to give a presentation, I always get “butterflies,” or it “gives me butterflies.” A “but terfly” is an insect that has beautiful wings. It’s small and many people – some people – try to catch butterflies with a big net. A “butterfly” comes ori ginally from a cocoon and then it is sort of born out of a little cocoon, or little s hell. Well, when we say, “I have butterflies in my stomach,” we mean that I feel – m y stomach feels – a little bit nauseated. That is, I don’t feel very well. My stom ach isn’t feeling very well because I am nervous, because I am scared of someth ing. Usually, when you have to give a presentation, people get nervous, an d sometimes they get “butterflies in their stomach.” It’s the expression  we use to say that you’re starting to feel a little sick because you are so n ervous.  

“I set up my projector” – or I got my projector rea dy – for my “PowerPoint program.” A “projector” is a machine with a lens th at shows the picture on a larger screen. You can have a “movie projector” – a  projector in a movie theater. You can have a projector at a meeting conn ected to your computer. It shows something up on a big screen, a place where y ou watch a movie or look at pictures. “PowerPoint,” you probably know, is Mi crosoft software that is used for giving presentations.  

I said I started my presentation by “clearing my vo ice.” “To clear your voice” means to go like this (clears voice), meaning to cl ear it so that you can speak more clearly. So, “to clear your voice” means to do  what I just did so that your voice sounds better. I said that I stood up and I “ addressed the 10 people present at the meeting.” “To address” means to talk  to a group of people. I said they were “10 people present,” meaning 10 people wh o are there physically at the meeting. That word “present” means a gift, but here it means, it can also mean, to be somewhere, to actually be physically in  a place. “There were students present at the – in the classroom.” That’s  the meaning of “present” here.  

I started off by saying, “Good afternoon. I want to  thank you for inviting me to talk to you today.” “To start off” means to begin, you probably know. The expression “I want to thank you for inviting me” is  a common way of starting a presentation if you were, in fact, invited to give a presentation. You start, often, by thanking people. “I want to thank you for inviti ng me today.”  

I then said that I had “a clicker in my hand to adv ance the slides.” When you’re giving a presentation like a PowerPoint presentatio n, a “clicker” is a little device, usually smaller than your hand, that has buttons on  it so you can go forward or backward in terms of the pictures or the “slides” t hat you are showing. In a PowerPoint presentation, we call each screen or eac h picture, if you will, a “slide.” Well, you can “advance the slides,” meanin g go forward from one to two to three. You can also go back in your slides to go  backwards: three, two, one. A clicker allows you to go back or forward. It’s us ually like a remote control, really. A remote control is a clicker.  

I began my talk by saying, “Today I’m going to talk  to you about our new product” – a very common way of starting a presenta tion, after you thank people for their attention or inviting you, is to t ell them what you’re going to talk about. “Today, I am going to talk to you about my n ew product,” whatever it is. I also used the expression, “Please feel free to ask questions.” That is a very polite way of telling someone that it’s okay for th em to ask questions: to “feel free.” When someone says, “Please feel free to call  me,” that means it’s okay for you to call me. I don’t mind.  

I “flipped through the slides” showing pictures of my product. “To flip through” means to go through – usually, to go through more o r less quickly. You can “flip through” slides. We normally – commonly, rather – t alk about “flipping through a book” or “flipping through a magazine” – means you turn the pages very quickly just to get an idea about what is in the magazine o r the book.  

I said that I concluded “by summarizing the main po ints of my talk with bullet points.” “The point” of something is the main idea of something. So, when you say, “the main points,” you mean the main ideas of your talk. “Bullet points,” you probably know, “bullet points” is when, on a pi ece of . . . on a computer, on a word processing document, or on a slide in PowerP oint, you have little dots – little usually black dots – and these dots are “ind ented,” meaning they’re moved in a little bit from the edge of the page, and they ’re used to list things. So, a “bullet point” is something that uses that format o n a page.  

I ended my presentation by saying, “Thank you for y our attention today. My contact information is on your handout.” Again, a v ery common way of ending a presentation is to thank people for their attention . This means you are thanking them for paying attention to you, for listening to you, for not falling asleep. My students usually don’t pay attention to me. They ar e sleeping, or listening to their iPods, or text messaging their friends, and s o forth. But you want to thank people for paying attention. “Thank you for your at tention today” – it means the same.   

 “My contact information” is my name, my address, my  telephone number – how you can contact or get in touch with me. I said tha t I put my contact information on a “handout.” That’s one word (handout), a noun w hich means a piece of paper that you give at a presentation or in a class  that has information about your presentation on it. You can have “handouts” at  a conference or any sort of presentation.  

I ended by saying “Whew! (I’m) glad that was over.”  That little sound that I made (whew!) is spelled (whew), and it’s an exclama tion, if you will. It’s a sound that we make in English to express relief. “I’m so glad this day is over. Whew!” That’s how I make the sound. Other native speakers may make it differently, but when you see it in a book or see it in writing,  it’s spelled (whew). 

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed. > I don't normally get stage fright, but the thought of getting up in front of my colleagues to give a presentation always gives me b utterflies. But I have no choice; my boss asked me to do it, so I will. 
> I set up my projector and PowerPoint program on my laptop. Clearing my voice, I stood up and addressed the 10 people present at t he meeting. I started off by saying, "Good afternoon. I want to thank you for in viting me to talk to you today." I had a clicker in my hand to advance the s lides. "Today I'm going to talk to you about our new product, Provasic. Please  feel free to ask questions as we go along," I said.  
> I then flipped through the slides showing pictures of our product, and concluded by summarizing the main points of my talk with bull et points. I finished by saying, "Thank you for your attention today. My con tact information is on your handout." Whew! I was glad that was over!

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.  

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. C ome back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast. 

ESL Podcast is produced by the Center for Education al Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2006 .

