# At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 7: At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number seven. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, I’ll talk about working at my desk , going on a short break, and going to lunch.

Let’s get started!

[Start of story]

On the way to the office, I was thinking about what  I have on my agenda today. When I get to my desk, there is a stack of new memo s and papers in my inbox. When I turn on my computer, I see at least two-doze n emails I need to go through.  Just as I start in on the email, my phone  rings.  It’s my project manager, Julie, asking me to come in for a conference call w ith our head office.  I don’t get back to my desk for nearly two hours.  By that time , I was ready for a break.

At 10:30, I head down to the break room and get som e hot water at the water cooler to make some tea.  There were a couple of ot her people on break, having snacks out of the vending machine and reading the n ew notices on the bulletin board.  I run into Sam, one of my friends at work, and we chat a little before going back to work.

Before long, it’s time for lunch.  I usually bring my lunch with me to work and eat it at my desk.  If I don’t have time to pack a lunc h, I sometimes go across the street for some take-out.  The only trouble is, it’ s always so busy during the lunch hour and I always have to stand in line.  That’s us ually a pain.  On Fridays, I usually go out to lunch with a few friends from wor k.  On casual Fridays, we can kick back a little and take it easy.

[End of Story]

Part six is called “At my Desk, on Break, and at Lu nch.”  Notice the use of those prepositions.  Prepositions are very difficult to t ranslate and many people get confused when you start learning another language t rying to figure out those little

ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

words - which word should you use.  There's a diffe rence between “at my desk” and “on my desk” and “in my desk.”  Those all mean different things.

“On your desk” means something is on top of your de sk, like your computer.  “In your desk” means something is inside one of the dra wers of your desks.  “At your desk” means that you are sitting next to your desk - you are, we hope, working, like you're supposed to be working right now, inste ad of listening to this episode.

“On break” is the expression we use when you are st opping work for a short time, usually ten, 15, maybe 20 minutes.  “At lunch” mean s you are going to lunch - you are eating.  We don't say, “in lunch” or “on lu nch,” we say, “at lunch.”  The best way to learn those little prepositions is just  to read and to listen more and more, and eventually, you will know them without ev en having to study them.

Our story begins by me saying that, “On the way to the office, I was thinking about what I have on my agenda today.”  Your agenda , “agenda,” means your plan for today - what are the things that you have to do today.  This could include meetings; it could include phone calls; you could h ave many different things on your agenda.

There's another expression, “to have an agenda.”  T o have an agenda means that you have a plan, sometimes a secret plan that you don't tell anyone about that makes you want to do a certain thing.  It's li ke having an opinion and trying to get other people to do what you want them to do; th at's to have an agenda.  But here, agenda just means a list of things that you'r e going to do.

“When I get to my desk, there is a stack of new mem os and papers in my inbox.” Stack, you'll remember, is when you have thin thing s on top of each other.  You can have a stack of pancakes; here we have a stack of papers and memos.  A “memo” (memo) is short for memorandum, and it is us ually like a letter that you send to someone in your company - in your office.  Your “inbox” (inbox) can be a little box on your desk where people put things for  you to do, your boss, for example.  And, when you are done with them, you can  put them in your out box. Those terms, inbox and out box, are also used for e mail programs now.

When I turn on my computer, I have at least two-doz en emails I need to go through.  The expression, “to go through,” here mea ns I have to read them and maybe respond to them.  Someone may say, “I have to  go through my email,” they mean I have to read my email, and I have to re spond, sometimes, to my email.  I have to do that everyday, just like you d o, but most of my emails come from you.

ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

 “Just as I start in on the email, my phone rings.”  The expression “to start in on something” means to begin to do something.  So, is tart in on my phone calls, that means that I have many phone calls and I start  making them - I begin making them.

There's a different expression, to start in on some one - on a person, and if you start in on a person - on your brother, on your wif e - that means that you are criticizing them - you're saying something bad - so mething negative about them. When I was younger, if I didn't do my homework, whi ch was often, my mother would start in on me, meaning she would criticize m e.  “Jeffrey, do your homework!”  The only person who calls me “Jeffrey” is my mother.

Back to our story, I said that my phone rang and it  was my project manager, Julie.  The manager is the person that is in charge  of a certain group of people - someone who is the boss - and a project is just a s et of things for you to do, usually related to each other.  Well, my project ma nager, who's like my boss, asked me to come in for a conference call with our head office.  A “conference, (conference) call” is a telephone call with three o r more people.  And, that's very common in American business and in international bu siness to have a conference call so more than one person can talk on  the telephone.  The head office (head) is the same as the main office, and t his is where the company has most of its important people who are working, it's sometimes called its headquarters.  The head office is the main office.  The opposite of head office would be a branch office (branch).  A branch office  is a smaller office.

We were having a conference call with someone in ou r head office, and I didn't get back to my desk - I didn't return to my desk - for almost, or nearly two hours. By that time, I was ready for a break.  At 10:30, I  head down to the break room. The “break room” (break room) – two words – is a pl ace in a building - in your office, where people can go and read and relax, per haps eat their lunch, or eat some food, It's a place for you to stop work and to  relax a little or to talk to other people.  I use the verb “to head down,” that simply  means to go to somewhere. We sometimes use that expression when we are talkin g about going to a different place.  “I'm going to head down to the bo ss's office” - I'm going to go over to the boss' office.

Well, “I head down to the break room” - I go to the  break room - “and get some hot water from the water cooler.”  The “water coole r” (cooler) is a little machine that has water and you can get hot water or you can  get cold water.  That expression, the water cooler, is very common.  When  people say, “I heard it at

ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

the water cooler,” or “around the water cooler,” th at usually refers to people who are gossiping - who are talking about things they p robably shouldn't.

Well, I went to the water cooler and I made myself some tea, because I love drinking tea.  There are “a couple of other people on break,” notice that we use that expression “on break” - people who have stoppe d working - “having snacks out of the vending machine.”  A “snack” (snack) is a piece of food that you eat between breakfast and lunch, or between lunch and d inner, or between dinner and going to bed.  A “vending machine” (vending) is  a big machine where you can buy, usually, food.  The verb “to vend” (vend) means to sell.  So, it's a place where you can sell food and you put your money in a nd you can press a button and you get things like cookies and potato chips, a ll the things that are not good for you in the vending machine.

Some people are also reading the new notices on the  bulletin board.  The “bulletin board” (bulletin board) – two words – is a big piece of usually wood or plastic where people put important messages for oth er people to read.  You can have a bulletin board at your work; you can have a bulletin board in a school, and usually, it's a place where different people can co me and read the news or new things or new announcements.

“I run into Sam, one of my friends at work.”  The v erb “to run into” means I meet him although I was not expecting to meet him.  So, “I run into Sam, and we chat a little before going back to work.”  “To chat” (ch at) means to talk, usually about something not very important.

“Before long, it’s time for lunch,” meaning after a  short time, it's time for lunch. Before long, means a short time or after a short ti me.  “I usually bring my lunch with me to work and eat it at my desk.”  Notice tha t use of “at my desk,” means I'm sitting by my desk and I'm eating my lunch – so unds kind of lonely.

“If I don’t have time to pack a lunch, I sometimes go across the street for some take-out.”  “To pack” (pack) a lunch means to make your lunch at home - a sandwich, for example - and put that into a bag or a box that you take with you to work; that is to pack a lunch.  If I don't pack a l unch, I usually eat “take-out” (take- out.”)  Take-out is when you go to a restaurant but  you don't eat at the restaurant - you don't “dine in,” we would say, (dine) in, you  don't dine in, you do take-out. You could also have the restaurant deliver the food  - bring the food to your house, or bring the food to your office, and we wou ld call that delivery.  So, you can dine in; you can do take-out, meaning you go to  the restaurant, or you can have delivery - someone brings the food to you.

ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

 “The only trouble is,” I say, “it’s always so busy during the lunch hour.”  The “lunch hour,” in most American companies, is from n oon to one or 1:30, or 11:30 in the morning to maybe one o'clock in the afternoo n.  It's usually longer than an hour, though in some companies, you only get one ho ur.  Some companies, you only get 30 minutes to eat.

“I always have to stand in line” because it's so bu sy.  To stand in line means to wait behind other people.  In England, they would s ay to queue; in the US we say to stand in line.  I say, “That’s usually a pain.”  When we say something is a “pain” (pain) we mean that it's very inconvenient o r uncomfortable - something you do not like.  People will also say a pain in the neck or a pain in the “butt” (butt).  Those are the same basic meanings.  Someth ing that's a pain in the neck or a pain in the butt means it's not something that  you like, it's very inconvenient.

“On Fridays, I usually go out to lunch” - I go to e at somewhere else - “with a few friends from work.  On casual Fridays, we can kick back a little and take it easy.” “Casual” (casual) is the same as informal.  In many  companies in the United States, they have casual Friday, and that's a day w here you do not have to wear as nice of clothing.  Maybe you'll wear a t-shirt a nd not a suit jacket, or you don't have to wear a tie, and it's also a day where peopl e feel a little more relaxed. Usually it has to do with what you can wear to work .

Well, in the story I say that “On casual Fridays, w e can kick back a little and take it easy.”  “To kick back” (kick back) – two words –  means to relax.  It's an informal expression that means that you are relaxing, and ta ke it easy also means relax. Kick back is a little more informal; it's something  that you might do, for example, with your friends.  And, if you drink alcohol, you might have some alcohol and relax; that's to kick back.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[Start of story]

On the way to the office, I was thinking about what  I have on my agenda today. When I get to my desk, there is a stack of new memo s and papers in my inbox. When I turn on my computer, I see at least two-doze n emails I need to go through.  Just as I start in on the email, my phone  rings.  It’s my project manager, Julie, asking me to come in for a conference call w ith our head office.  I don’t get back to my desk for nearly two hours.  By that time , I was ready for a break.

ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

At 10:30, I head down to the break room and get som e hot water at the water cooler to make some tea.  There were a couple of ot her people on break, having snacks out of the vending machine and reading the n ew notices on the bulletin board.  I run into Sam, one of my friends at work, and we chat a little before going back to work.

Before long, it’s time for lunch.  I usually bring my lunch with me to work and eat it at my desk.  If I don’t have time to pack a lunc h, I sometimes go across the street for some take-out.  The only trouble is, it’ s always so busy during the lunch hour and I always have to stand in line.  That’s us ually a pain.  On Fridays, I usually go out to lunch with a few friends from wor k.  On casual Fridays, we can kick back a little and take it easy.

[End of story]

She always writes us a great script before kicking back at the end of the day. I speak of our scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you,  Lucy!

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan,thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.



ESL Podcast 7 - At My Desk, on Break, and at Lunch

______



