# Missing Person, Part 8: ¡§Tracing the Plates.¡¨

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 68 – Missing Person , Part 8: “Tracing the Plates.”

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 68. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode is the eighth in our 12-part special s eries: Missing Person , a murder mystery. In our previous episode, our narrator – Dr . Reeves – was having dinner at the apartment of his friend and ex-girlfriend, K athy. He told Kathy about the case of the missing woman, Sarah Prado, and said th at he had two suspects: two ex-employees of the company that Sarah and Anne  Prado’s parents used to own.

After leaving Kathy’s apartment, Dr. Reeves decided  to go and talk to one of the ex-employees at a club – a bar – near the airport. As he was driving to the airport, however, he heard on his police scanner, o r police radio, a message about a car accident on the freeway involving his s tudent, Anne Prado.

Now, we continue with part 8 of Missing Person : “Tracing the Plates.” > “Be careful! She might have broken bones,” the ambu lance driver yelled.
> I arrived at the accident scene just a few minutes after the police. Anne was already in the ambulance and ready to go to the hos pital.
> “Wait just one second,” I said to the police office r closing the back door of the ambulance. “I’m a friend of the victim. Can I talk to her?”
> “Okay, go ahead,” she said, “but hurry up.”
> “Thanks.” I turned and looked at Anne. She had hurt  her arm and leg, but she was awake and able to speak. “Anne,” I said softly.  “Anne, it’s me, Dr. Reeves.”
> Anne opened her eyes slowly. “Dr. Reeves, wha – wha t are you doing here?”
> “I heard about the accident on my police scanner. A nne, what happened?”
> The title of this episode is “Tracing the Plates.” “Plates” (plates) here refers to the license plates on a car. “To trace (trace) the plat es” means to talk to the police, who can then find out who the car belongs to by loo king up the license plate number on a computer.

As Dr. Reeves arrives at the scene of the accident on the freeway, the ambulance driver yells, “Be careful! She may have b roken bones.” An “ambulance” (ambulance) is a truck that transports people who are sick or hurt and need to get to the hospital right away. It “tra nsports” them, meaning it takes them there. Most cities in the United States have a n ambulance system. Usually the ambulances have what are called “paramedics.” A  “paramedic” (paramedic) is not a doctor, but someone who is trained to help  sick or injured people until they can get to the hospital.

Dr. Reeves asks the police officer if he can talk to Anne, saying, “I’m a friend of the victim.” A “victim” (victim) is someone who has  had something bad happen to them, such as a crime. You can also be a victim of a natural disaster like a hurricane or an earthquake. The police officer says , “Go ahead, but hurry up.” “To hurry up” means to do something quickly. Dr. Re eves says softly to Anne, “Anne it’s me.” To say something “softly” is to low er your voice, to speak in a quiet voice like this. Dr. Reeves asks Anne what ha ppened, and Anne tells him that a red car going very fast hit her “from behind ,” meaning it hit the back of her car.

Anne was lucky enough to get the license plate numb er of the car that hit her, and she gives the number to Dr. Reeves. The policew oman then tells Dr. Reeves that he has to go. She says, “Okay buddy, you’ll ha ve to go now.” “Buddy” (buddy) is a word used to refer to a guy or a man. Technically, a “buddy” is a friend, but people also use it with strangers, like  when we say, “Hey, buddy!” It often has a slight negative connotation or negative  meaning when it’s used like that. Dr. Reeves says that he “jumped out of the am bulance and it drove away.” “To jump out of the ambulance” means to get out of the ambulance very quickly.

He then makes a call from a pay phone. A “pay phone ” is not a very common thing anymore. It’s a public telephone where you ca n pay to make a call. There are still pay phones in the United States, but beca use almost everyone has a cell phone now, they’re not as popular. Dr. Reeves calls  the police department and

tells the operator, “Get me Officer Cho,” meaning “ I want to talk to Officer Cho. Put him on the line.” Because he is a police office r, he is called “Officer Cho.” If I were a police officer, I would be called “Officer M cQuillan.” I’m not a police officer, of course.

Dr. Reeves says that he needs “some information on a car registration.” “Car registration” means who the car is registered to. in the United States, you have to register any car you own. So, there is a record – there’s a file – with your name and your car’s license plate number. Dr. Reeves tel ls Officer Cho that he’ll call him back in an hour. At the end of the conversation , he tells Officer Cho, “You’re the best!” meaning “You’re great. You are the best at what you do.”

Dr. Reeves then goes to the bar by the airport. He goes into the bar and talks to the bartender. A “bartender” (bartender) – all one word – is the person who works behind the bar serving drinks. He asks the bartende r if he knows Lenny McKay, and the bartender says, “I never heard of Lenny Mac Kay. . . .There ain’t no Lenny McKay working here.” The expression “there ai n’t no” is an informal expression. It means the same as “there isn’t any,”  but the word “ain’t” is very informal and not something you should use at work o r at school.

Well, Dr. Reeves doesn’t believe the bartender, so he goes over to a door with a sign that says “DO NOT ENTER” and he opens the door . “Do not enter” means “Do not go in,” but Dr. Reeves opens the door anywa y, and he finds Lenny McKay. He asks Lenny where he was two days ago at 8 :30 in the morning, and Lenny says that he was in Las Vegas with his girlfr iend. “Las (Las) Vegas (Vegas)” is a big city in the state of Nevada where  people go to gamble. Dr. Reeves says, “I believed Lenny when he told me that  he was in Vegas.” Sometimes, as Dr. Reeves does here, we call Las Veg as simply “Vegas.” “He was in Vegas” is the same as saying “He was in Las Vegas.”

Dr. Reeves decides to check Lenny’s story by talkin g to Lenny’s girlfriend, Tanya. Tanya responds, “What do you want, bud?” “Bud” (bud ) here is the same as “buddy.” It is a shortened form of buddy, and it’s not a very polite thing to say – it has a somewhat negative meaning. Dr. Reeves asks wh ere she was two days ago, and she says, “Who wants to know?” Again, that  is a not very polite and somewhat challenging thing to say. You might say th at to someone when you don’t want to give them much information about your self.

Dr. Reeves explains that he’s “investigating a girl  who’s gone missing.” “To go missing” means to be missing, to be lost, to have d isappeared. He says he wants to “clear someone of suspicion.” “Suspicion” (suspi cion) is when you think that someone is guilty of doing something wrong, and “to  clear someone of suspicion”

means to provide evidence or proof that they didn’t  do anything wrong. Tanya says that she was in Las Vegas with her boyfriend, Lenny, and Dr. Reeves thanks her and then decides to drive home.

When he gets home, he checks his voice mail. “Voice  mail” is where you can leave someone a telephone message. Dr. Reeves has o nly one message, from “a man with a very deep voice” – meaning a very low  voice – who tells him to stop trying to find Sarah Salas, and that if he doe sn’t, he will die.

On the next episode of Missing Person , Dr. Reeves investigates another one of his suspects.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

“Be careful! She might have broken bones,” the ambu lance driver yelled.

I arrived at the accident scene just a few minutes after the police. Anne was already in the ambulance and ready to go to the hos pital.

“Wait just one second,” I said to the police office r closing the back door of the ambulance. “I’m a friend of the victim. Can I talk to her?”

“Okay, go ahead,” she said, “but hurry up.”

“Thanks.” I turned and looked at Anne. She had hurt  her arm and leg, but she was awake and able to speak. “Anne,” I said softly.  “Anne, it’s me, Dr. Reeves.”

Anne opened her eyes slowly. “Dr. Reeves, wha – wha t are you doing here?”

“I heard about the accident on my police scanner. A nne, what happened?”

“A . . . a car . . . red car . . . going very fast . . . hit me. Hit me from behind . . . tried to kill me . . .” It was difficult for her to  talk.

“A red car, Anne?” I asked, hoping to get more info rmation. “Did you see the driver?”

“No . . . didn’t see . . . but . . . I got the lice nse plate . . . 3XZW . . . 4 . . . 5 . . . 1,” she said, running out of breath.

 “Anne, that’s wonderful! Good work!”

“Thanks, Dr. Reeves.” She smiled a little and touch ed my hand softly.

“Okay, buddy, you’ll have to go now,” the policewom an yelled. “She needs to get to the hospital.”

I jumped out of the ambulance and it drove away. I got back in my car and drove to the nearest pay phone. I had to find out who own ed that car.

“Hello, police department? Yes, get me Officer Cho. ” Cho was an old friend of mine. When I needed a favor, he was always willing to help.

“Cho? This is Darren Reeves. Yeah, look, I need som e information on a car registration. License number 3XZW451 . . . right, I ’ll call you back in an hour. Thanks, Cho. You’re the best.”

It was now 7:45 p.m. and I still needed to talk to one of the ex-employees of Prado Computers who worked at a bar near the airpor t. I drove down the freeway and arrived about 20 minutes later.

When I got to the bar, I walked inside. It smelled of old beer, old cigarettes, and old men. I sat down at the bar and ordered a drink.  I was here to speak to Lenny MacKay, an ex-employee of Prado Computers.

“Excuse me, bartender,” I said to the man serving the drinks, “I’m looking for Lenny, Lenny MacKay.”

“I never heard of Lenny MacKay,” he answered very q uickly. “You got the wrong place. There ain’t no Lenny MacKay working here.”

I looked into his eyes, and I knew he was lying.

I got up from the bar and walked to the back of the  place. There was a door to the left. The door had a sign on it that said, “DO NOT ENTER.” I entered.

“Hey!” A man yelled at me as I went into the back r oom. “Who are you?”

“I’m looking for Lenny MacKay. Are you Lenny?”

“Yeah, I’m Lenny. Now who are you?” he replied.

 “My name’s Reeves. Look, I’m not here to waste your  time. I just want to ask you a few questions. Now, where were you two days ago a t about 8:30 in the morning?”

“I was in Las Vegas with my girlfriend. Ask her. Sh e’ll tell you that I was with her.”

I believed Lenny when he told me that he was in Veg as, but I needed to be sure. “Who’s your girlfriend? What’s her name?” I asked.

“Her name is Tanya. She’s working here tonight. You  can ask her!”

I walked over to a table and found a girl sitting b y herself, drinking a beer. “Are you Tanya?” I asked.

“Yeah, I’m Tanya. What do you want, bud?”

“I just have a quick question for you: Where were y ou two days ago?”

“Who wants to know?”

“I’m investigating a girl who’s gone missing, and I  just want to clear someone of suspicion, that’s all.”

“I was in Las Vegas with my boyfriend, Lenny. Lenny  MacKay.”

“That’s all I needed to know. Thanks.” I walked out  of the bar and got back into my car. As usual, Kathy was right: Lenny wasn’t inv olved in the kidnapping.

I got back on the freeway and drove to my apartment . It was now 10:30 p.m. and I was tired. I needed to sleep before I could conti nue my investigation. As soon as I got into my apartment, I checked my voice mail  for messages. There was only one. It was from a man with a very deep voice.

The message was short but very clear: “Darren Reeve s, stop trying to find Sarah Salas! If you don’t stop looking for her now, you w ill die!”

[end of story]

On the next episode of Missing Person , Dr. Reeves investigates another person who may have kidnapped Sarah Salas. Be sure to come  back for part 9: “At the Beach.”

 From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

