# At My Desk

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 36: At My Desk and at Lunch

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 36. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to see Lucy working at  her desk and go out to lunch with her supervisor. Let's get started.

[Start of story]

I get to the office and sit down at my desk.  I sha re a cubicle with another employee, Jim, but he only works in the afternoons so we don’t usually get in each other’s way too much.  I boot up my computer a nd look at my agenda for today.  I had about 30 new emails in my inbox but I  decide not to read them right away.  There were some new inter-office paperwork i n my inbox too, but I decide to look at them a little later.  First, I wanted to  start in on a report that I had to finish today.  I had a conference call at the end of the day with the head office, but I had most of the day to get it done.

Before long, it was the lunch hour.  I didn’t pack a lunch so I ask my supervisor if she wanted to have lunch together.  We head down the street to a sit-down restaurant.  The hostess shows us to a table in the  back of the restaurant.  The waiter arrives a few minutes later and we order ent rees, no appetizers, since we need to get back by 1:00.  The waiter was very busy  so I had to wave him down to get the check.  He brought the bill, and my supe rvisor and I split the check. We walk back to the office and I get back to work.  Just four more hours until quitting time!

[End of story]

When we say we are at our desk, we mean we are sitt ing next to or by our desk.

Lucy gets to the office and sits down at her desk.  She shares "a cubicle with another employee."  A cubicle, "cubicle," is a smal l space in a big office where you have walls that divide the different employees.   They don't have a separate office; they don't usually have a door, but they do  have walls - three walls around them so they have some privacy - they have some qui et to work.  But, the

ESL Podcast 36 - At My Desk and at Lunch

cubicles are in a larger office, so it's like a sma ll part of an office that one person can work at or two people can work at.

In the Lucy's case, she shares her cubicle with som eone else, "but he only works in the afternoons so" they "don't usually get in ea ch other's way too much."  To get in someone else's way means that you are interf ering with each other - you are causing problems for each other.

Lucy says that she boots up her computer and looks at her agenda for the day. To boot, "boot," up (two words) means to start your  computer - to turn your computer on.  Your agenda, "agenda," is a list of t hings - a schedule of things that you need to do today: appointments, phone call s, and so forth; all of these would be part of your agenda.

Lucy says that she "had about 30 new emails in" her  "inbox."  Your inbox, "inbox," is in your email program, and that is the place where you find the messages that people have sent you.  You can also h ave a inbox where you put papers that you have to work on.  The opposite of t he inbox would be the out box.

Lucy says that there are "some new inter-office pap erwork in" her "inbox too." Inter-office, "inter-office," means between offices .  Inter means between two different offices.  So, inter-office paperwork woul d be things, letters, memos, other business forms that you would give to another  office in your company.  If you are in the accounting department, you take care  of the money; you might send information to the sales department; that woul d be inter-office paperwork.

Paperwork, "paperwork," (one word) just refers to a ny form, letter, memo, anything on paper that is related to your business.   Sometimes people use this expression, paperwork, to describe unnecessary form s or paper forms that you have to complete that cause a lot of problems - tha t take a lot of time.  Someone may say, "There's too much paperwork to get a visa to the United States" - a lot of paperwork.

There's a joke in offices about putting paperwork i n the circular file.  A file, "file," is usually a place where you put business documents  that are related to each other.  Circular, "circular," means round.  The exp ression, circular file, refers to a wastebasket or a trash basket, a place where you wo uld get rid of something - throw something away.  So, someone may say, "Well, I'm going to put this in my circular file," that is I'm going to throw it away.   Of course, it's not really a file.  If it were a file, you would keep it in a filing cabinet.   I worked at a job, many years

ESL Podcast 36 - At My Desk and at Lunch

ago, where I had a small cubicle and we had lots of  paperwork.  Many times, we would joke about putting some of the sales paperwor k into the circular file because it was more work for us to have to read it.

Lucy says that she "wanted to start in on a report that" she "had to finish today." To start in (two words) means to begin - to begin w orking on something - to start something.  "I want to start in on the report" - I want to begin working on the report.  We often use this verb when we are talking  about a big project or a project that is going to take a lot of time.

Lucy says that she has "a conference call at the en d of the day with the head office."  A conference call, "conference," call is when you have three or more people talking on the telephone together at the sam e time.  You can have a conference call of three, four, ten, perhaps even m ore people, although it is difficult to hear everyone if you have more than fi ve or six people talking.  A conference call is a way that businesses save money , of course, so they can have a meeting without actually having to leave you r office.  To me, that is the best meeting, when I don't actually have to go to it.

Lucy says that she has "a conference call at the en d of the day," meaning during the last part of the day, "with the head office."  The head office is the main office. It's the headquarters for your company.  It's the m ost important office, the biggest office, usually.  She does not work at the head off ice, we can guess, she probably works at what we would call a branch of the company, "branch," a branch.  The word branch is the same word we use for a tree - the different parts of the tree - the arms of the tree we call the bran ches.  They're smaller parts of the bigger tree.  This is a branch office; it's a s maller office, part of a larger company.

Lucy says that "Before long, it was the lunch hour. "  Before long means very soon afterwards.  "Before long, it was the lunch ho ur," and the lunch hour is the time that you eat your middle of the day meal - you r lunch.  Some companies have a thirty minute lunch hour.  Some companies ha ve an hour lunch hour. Some companies don't have a set lunch hour for the more important bosses, they may go on a long lunch, especially if it is a meeti ng - a business lunch we would call it.

In Lucy's story, she says that she "didn't pack a l unch," so she asks her "supervisor if she wanted to" go with her to lunch.   To pack, "pack," a lunch means to make food at home, put it in a bag or a sm all box, and bring it to work; that's packing a lunch.  Lucy says that she asked h er "supervisor if she wanted to

ESL Podcast 36 - At My Desk and at Lunch

have lunch together."  A supervisor, "supervisor," is another name for your boss - the person who tells you what to do.  In my life, t hat would be my wife!

Lucy says that she and her supervisor "head down the street to a sit-down restaurant."  To head, "head," somewhere means to g o somewhere or to go in the direction of something.  To "head down the stre et" just means to go down or to walk, in this case, on "the street to a sit-down  restaurant," a restaurant where you can have a more formal meal.

"The hostess shows" them "to a table in the back of  the restaurant."  A hostess, "hostess," is the woman, in this case, in a restaur ant that says hello to you when you come in the restaurant - that greets you, and s he asks how many people are in your party, meaning how big is your group - how many people are in your group, and then she takes you to a table.  The male  version of this would be a host, "host."  So, a hostess is always a woman and host is a man.

In very expensive restaurants - in what we would ca ll fancy restaurants, restaurants where you have to dress very nicely and  you pay a lot of money for your food, they sometimes have what's called the ma itre d', a maitre d', which is the person that takes reservations and shows you to  your table.

In this story, the hostess shows Lucy and her super visor "to a table."  To show someone to a table means to take them to a table.  When I go into a restaurant, sometimes they look at me and they show me the door , meaning they take me to the door and say, "Goodbye, we don't want you in ou r restaurant."  Happens to me all the time, I'm not sure why.

"The waiter arrives" at their table "a few minutes later" and Lucy and her boss "order entrees," not "appetizers."  An entree, "ent ree," is the main part of your meal, what we would call the main course, "course."   Your meal has different parts.  There's the main course, which is the entre e, that's the biggest part of the meal where you would get, for example, chicken or s teak or the largest part of the food you are eating.  An appetizer, "appetizer, " is something you eat at the beginning of the meal, usually it's a smaller porti on of food.  Perhaps you would have some vegetables, or in many restaurants, they have appetizers that are fried food - food that you put in oil to make them brown.  These are appetizers; they are things that you eat before your entree - y our main meal.

Lucy and her boss "need to get back" or to return " by 1:00," so they do not have time to have an appetizer.  After they finished the ir meal, Lucy waved down the waiter.  She says "The waiter was very busy so I ha d to wave him down."  To

ESL Podcast 36 - At My Desk and at Lunch

wave, "wave," someone down means that you put your hand up in the air or you say something to tell the person that you want him to come over to you.  To wave someone down could also be used, for example, if yo u had problems with your car.  Your car stopped working, we would say it bro ke down, and you park on the side of the road and you try to wave someone down t o help you.  You wave your arm - you move your arm back and forth to get someo ne's attention.

The waiter "brought the bill," and Lucy and her sup ervisor "split the check."  To split, "split," is the same as divide.  The check, of course, is the bill - how much money you owe.  So, to split the check means to div ide the check; each person pays for the food that they ate.

Lucy and her supervisor walk back to their office.  Lucy says, "Just four more hours until quitting time!"  Quitting time is the t ime that you stop working.  We're going to stop talking and now listen to the story a t a normal speed.

[Start of story]

I get to the office and sit down at my desk.  I sha re a cubicle with another employee, Jim, but he only works in the afternoons so we don’t usually get in each other’s way too much.  I boot up my computer a nd look at my agenda for today.  I had about 30 new emails in my inbox but I  decide not to read them right away.  There were some new inter-office paperwork i n my inbox too, but I decide to look at them a little later.  First, I wanted to  start in on a report that I had to finish today.  I had a conference call at the end of the day with the head office, but I had most of the day to get it done.

Before long, it was the lunch hour.  I didn’t pack a lunch so I ask my supervisor if she wanted to have lunch together.  We head down the street to a sit-down restaurant.  The hostess shows us to a table in the  back of the restaurant.  The waiter arrives a few minutes later and we order ent rees, no appetizers, since we need to get back by 1:00.  The waiter was very busy  so I had to wave him down to get the check.  He brought the bill, and my supe rvisor and I split the check. We walk back to the office and I get back to work.  Just four more hours until quitting time!

[End of story]

Thanks to our fantastic scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse,  for all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, Cali fornia, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcas t.

ESL Podcast 36 - At My Desk and at Lunch

 This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com.



