# At the Art Exhibit

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 30 – At the Art Exhibit.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 30. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss taking a tr ip to a museum. Let's get started. > I really wanted to see the new exhibit at the art m useum, and I invited Lucy to come along. We both like contemporary art, and this  was an exhibition by an artist we've both liked ever since she was up-and-c oming 10 years ago.
> This exhibit was a retrospective, so there was goin g to be a lot of different types of work by the artist. There would be some of the a rtist's paintings, her early work. There would also be some of her sculptures. H er most recent work is mixed-media. She is very versatile, and that's one of the reasons I like her work so much.
> We were going to the opening of the exhibition, wit h a wine and cheese reception for the artist. When we arrived in the main gallery , there were already a lot of people there. Looking around, I could see that some  of the people were artists themselves and others were art critics. I'm sure th ere were collectors there, too. I knew the curator and looked around for him. I spott ed him talking with a group of people in the corner.
> After a little while, the curator said a few words and then introduced the artist. We got a chance to meet her briefly and she was very g racious. I'm glad that someone with her talent has made it in the art worl d. That's not easy to do. And I think her best work is still to come.

Today we enter the world of art and art exhibits. I  talked about a trip that Lucy and I took to see an “exhibit at the art museum.” A n “exhibit” (exhibit) is a special collection of art that you go to see. Sometimes exh ibits are of one particular artist’s work, like the exhibit in the story. And s ometimes, they are of art from a

certain a period of time. For example, here in Los Angeles, a few years ago, there was an art exhibit about King Tut and ancient  Egypt; that was a special exhibit.

I said, “I invited Lucy to come along.” To ask some one “to come along” means to ask that person to go somewhere with you. The type of exhibit that Lucy and I saw was “contemporary art.” “Contemporary” (contemp orary) means of the current time period. So, “contemporary art” would b e art that was made within the last 10 years or so. Contemporary art is also somet imes called “modern art,” although the term “modern” can refer to anything fr om the 20th century or, now, the 21st century.

I said that we had both liked this artist “ever sin ce she was up-and-coming 10 years ago.” “Ever since” means after a certain time . For example, “Ever since I got back to Los Angeles, the weather has been beaut iful” means that the weather has been beautiful from the time I returned until n ow. “Up-and-coming” (up-and- coming) is an expression we use for anyone – an art ist, an actor, a politician – who is not yet famous or successful but will be in the future. Usually, we say this about a young artist or a young actor or anyone who  is just starting out but who will probably become very popular.

I said that the exhibit or “show” we went to see “w as a retrospective.” A “retrospective” (retrospective) is an exhibit that shows you the history of an artist’s work from the beginning. So, for example, a retrospective of movies by the famous Japanese director Kurosawa would include  his early films, such as Rashomon , as well as later films like The Seven Samurai . If you’ve never seen these movies, I can highly recommend them. And my a pologies to our Japanese listeners if I have mispronounced those names.

Back to our story, I said that this exhibit was a r etrospective, and that it included “some of the artist’s paintings.” “Paintings” (pain tings) are pictures that are made with paint: water-based paint, oil-based paint, acr ylic paint, and so forth. I said that the paintings were part of her “early work.” W hen talking about art, we use the word “work” to mean the things that the artist has produced. The exhibit also had some of the artist’s “sculptures.” “Sculptures”  (sculptures) can be made from many different materials. The “Venus de Milo,” the famous Greek statue in the Louvre Museum in Paris, was made from marble.

The most recent work by the artist we went to see w as “mixed-media.” In modern art, many times the artist will combine different t ypes of art: movies and music and pictures and so forth. When there are different  art media used at the same time, we say it is “mixed-media.” I said that the a rtist we saw was “versatile.” “To

be versatile” (versatile) means to be able to do ma ny different things. I am not very versatile, for example.

The exhibit included a special party to celebrate t he start of the exhibit, called an “opening” (opening). In the movie world, the first time a movie is shown is called a “premier.” But for a paintor or a sculptor or any one whose work is shown in a museum, it is called an “opening.” You can have an opening at a museum. You can also have an opening at an art gallery. A “gall ery” (gallery) of art is a store that sells art, and it can also be part of a museum . So, we can use the term “gallery” to mean either part of a museum or a stor e that sells art.

At most openings, there is some sort of food and so mething to drink. The most common food and drinks, or “refreshments,” at an ar t opening are “wine and cheese.” “Wine” (wine) is, of course, something tha t you shouldn’t drink too much of, and “cheese” (cheese) is something very delicio us that is made from cow or goat milk. We would call this a “wine and cheese re ception.” “Reception” (reception) is just another word for a celebration or a party. An “art reception” is a very “low-key” party; there is not a lot of dancing  or loud music. An art reception is much quieter than a wedding reception, for examp le.

I said that I saw many different people at the open ing, and that some of the people I saw were “art critics.” A “critic” (critic ) is anyone who writes for the newspaper or is on television and comments or gives  an opinion about how good a movie is or how good a piece of art is.

I said that there were also probably “collectors” a t the opening. “Art collectors” (collectors) are usually people who have a lot of m oney who buy art to put in their homes. They call these people “collectors” because they collect the art – they keep the art. We also use the term “collectors” to refer to anyone who likes to collect certain things. For example, there are some  people who like to collect dolls and some people who like to collect famous ph otographs. These are also collectors.

The person at the museum who organizes the exhibits  is called a “curator.” The “curator” (curator) decides which pieces of art to show and how they will be displayed. I said that I knew the curator and that I “spotted him talking with a group of people.” “To spot” (spot) someone means to  find or to see the person you’re looking for in a large crowd or in a large r oom. For example, “I can’t find my wife in this crowded room, but then I spot her –  she’s the beautiful woman standing at the door.” That’s what “to spot” means.  You can also spot a thing: “I was walking down the street and I spotted a penny.”  So, I picked it up and put it in my pocket.

 The curator “said a few words.” The expression “to say a few words” means to stand up in front of a group of people and say some thing, but not for very long. That’s why we say “a few” words – not many words. O ften you will hear this expression at a party like a birthday party. Someon e will say to the person whose birthday it is, “Would you say a few words?” This m eans, “Will you stand up and say something to everyone?”

I said we were able to meet the artist, and that sh e was “very gracious.” “To be gracious” (gracious) means to be polite, to be kind , to be nice. I said that I was happy that “someone with her talent” had “made it i n the art world.” “Talent” (talent) is an ability or a gift. Usually, we talk about talent when we are talking about some special ability that someone has. “To ma ke it” means to be successful. “I hope to make it in the acting world”  means I hope to be successful in that area.

Finally, I said that I thought this artist’s best w ork was “still to come.” “Still to come” means that we’re still expecting it – it hasn ’t happened yet. “The end of this television series is still to come.” It’s in t he future.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

I really wanted to see the new exhibit at the art m useum, and I invited Lucy to come along. We both like contemporary art, and this  was an exhibition by an artist we've both liked ever since she was up-and-c oming 10 years ago.

This exhibit was a retrospective, so there was goin g to be a lot of different types of work by the artist. There would be some of the a rtist's paintings, her early work. There would also be some of her sculptures. H er most recent work is mixed media. She is very versatile, and that's one of the reasons I like her work so much.

We were going to the opening of the exhibition, wit h a wine and cheese reception for the artist. When we arrived in the main gallery , there were already a lot of people there. Looking around, I could see that some  of the people were artists themselves and others were art critics. I'm sure th ere were collectors there, too. I knew the curator and looked around for him. I spott ed him talking with a group of people in the corner.

After a little while, the curator said a few words and then introduced the artist. We got a chance to meet her briefly and she was very g racious. I'm glad that someone with her talent has made it in the art worl d. That's not easy to do. And I think her best work is still to come.

[end of story]





