# Seeing Old Friends

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 18 – Seeing Old Friends.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 18. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, Lucy is going to tell us about som e old friends that she saw recently. Let's get started.  > This has been a month for seeing old friends. I got  an email a couple of weeks ago from an old friend from college. She and her fa mily are visiting L.A. for a week. They plan to see family and to visit old frie nds. Since she moved away, I hadn't seen her in ages. I'm looking forward to mee ting her new kids and seeing her again.
> Another old friend called this week. She and I were  buddies when we were young. She plans to swing by L.A. on her way to San  Francisco. We've made plans to have lunch. She works in Washington D.C. a nd is normally very busy. I'm glad she could make time for us to get together .
> When we say good-bye to our friends, we always hope  to keep in touch. But, what with this and that, it's sometimes hard to do. With friends that I've fallen out of touch with, it's sometimes hard to meet agai n and pick up where we left off. We've both moved on to a different phase in our liv es. Some of my old friends have become very successful, and are living lives i n the fast lane. Other friends are having a more difficult time and are just makin g ends meet. But, no matter how they're doing, it's always nice to touch base a gain.
> I'm really looking forward to seeing these old pals  and catching up after all this time. We just won’t mention how much we’ve aged.

Lucy begins her story by saying that “this has been  a month for seeing old friends.” The word “old” here can mean two differen t things. It can mean friends who are advanced in age; someone who is 90 years ol d might be called your “old friend,” versus your “young friend.” Here, Lucy usi ng it in a different meaning, to

mean the opposite of “new.” An “old friend” would b e a friend whom you have known for many years or many decades, even.

Lucy says that she “got an email a couple of weeks ago” – a few weeks ago, two, maybe three weeks ago – “from an old friend from co llege” – someone she went to the university with. This friend and her family “are visiting L.A.” – Los Angeles – “for a week. They plan to see family and [to] vis it old friends.” “Since she moved away,” since she went to another place, “I ha dn't seen her in ages.” “In ages” means for a very long time, maybe 10 years or  20 years. “A long time” is an expression that is relative, and “ages” is also relative, depending on what other time period you're talking about. But here, it definitely has been a long time. She says, “I'm looking forward to meeting her new k ids and seeing her again.”

“Another [old] friend called this week,” she says. Lucy says, “She and I were buddies when we were young.” Your “buddy” (buddy) i s your close friend. This is a term that we use informally. It's not quite as co mmon anymore. We would use it especially for younger children. A young boy might have a buddy. There's even something in schools called the “buddy system.” The  buddy system, which can be used not just in school but anywhere, is the ide a that you have someone who is helping you and you’re helping them, especially if you're going on a trip, for example.

Well, Lucy is talking about a buddy of hers – a goo d friend of hers when she was young. This friend “plans to swing by L.A. on her w ay to San Francisco.” “To swing (swing) by” somewhere means to stop at one lo cation on the way to another location, or to visit someone briefly on yo ur way to traveling somewhere else. “I have to go to the grocery store this after noon, but first I'm going to swing by the coffee shop and pick up a cup of coffee” – I 'm going to stop there briefly on my way to another place. That's the meaning of “ to swing by” somewhere. This friend is going to “swing by L.A. on her way t o San Francisco.”

“Swing by” is usually used when we're talking about  a place that's relatively close. We don't usually use it in this context of t alking about going to a completely different city, but that's what Lucy tel ls us. She says, “We've made plans to have lunch. She works in Washington, D.C.”  – which is our nation's capital, on the East Coast of the United States – “ and is normally very busy.” Lucy says, “I'm glad she could make time for us to get together.” “To make time for” someone, or simply “to make time,” means to fi nd time to do something when you are busy – to plan on something for someone eve n though you have many other things to do.

Lucy says, “When we say good-bye to our friends, we  always hope to keep in touch.” “To keep in touch” means to stay in contact , to be continuing your communication with the person. This is something yo u may say to someone who's perhaps leaving for another city, going to wo rk in a different place: “Let's keep in touch.” Or you could just say it to someone  who perhaps you don't plan on seeing a lot of in the near future, but you want  that person to remain your friend. Lucy says, “But, what with this and that, it's sometimes hard to do.” This expression, “what with this or that,” means “with e verything else that is going on,” because life is so busy. That's the meaning of the expression “what with this and that.”

Lucy says, “With friends that I've fallen out of to uch with, it’s sometimes hard to meet again and pick up where we left off.” “To fall  out of touch” is the opposite of “to keep in touch.” When you fall out of touch with  someone, you no longer call them or email them or communicate with them very fr equently. Lucy says when you do that, it's “hard to meet again and pick up w here we left off.” “To pick up where you left off” means to go back to the point w here your, in this case, friendship ended and continue from that point. We can use this expression – “to pick up where you left off” – in a lot of different  ways. If you were reading a book, for example, you would want to continue reading the  book tomorrow at the place where you stopped reading it today. You would want to pick up where you left off. In this case, it means to continue a relationship a fter many years.

Lucy says, “We’ve both moved on to a different phas e in our lives.” “To move on” means to progress, to leave one place and go to ano ther. In this case, they’ve “moved on to a different phase” (phase). A “phase” is a period or a step along a certain progression. You are moving towards some go al, perhaps. You are changing your situation, or the situation is changi ng for you.

So, you might meet a beautiful woman and fall in lo ve with this woman. During the first few months, you are in a phase of your re lationship where everything is wonderful, and everything is fantastic, and you con tinue to see this woman, then eventually you get married. Now you move to a diffe rent phase where everything is terrible, and – no, I'm just kidding. Just a dif ferent phase, that's all.

We continue our story. Lucy says, “Some of my old f riends have become very successful, and are living lives in the fast lane.”  The “fast lane” (lane) means a very busy, often stressful lifestyle with lots of t hings happening. We often use this expression for someone who is perhaps very successf ul in business, who's making a lot of money and who does a lot of things.  They go different places. They see different people. They're very busy. Livin g life in the fast lane has the idea of something exciting – something exciting is happening in your life.

 Lucy says that other friends of hers “are having a more difficult time and are just making ends meet.” “To make ends meet” means to bar ely have enough money to pay for your expenses, to pay your bills. You ha ve just enough money to survive, but not any more.

Lucy says, “No matter how they're doing, it's alway s nice to touch base again.” “To touch base” (base) means to contact someone to find out what is happening – “to check in” with someone, we might say. Let's s ay you asked someone to build a new house for you. You have a lot of money,  and you ask this person to construct a new house. You would want to touch base  with that person frequently – many times – to find out what's going on, to get a progress report. “To touch base” means to communicate with someone, usually for some specific purpose. It's often used in businesses or formal settings.

Lucy ends by saying, “I'm really looking forward to  seeing these old pals and catching up after all this time.” A “pal” (pal) is a friend – an informal term for a close friend, like “buddy.” “To catch up” is a two- word phrasal verb which here means to learn about events of someone's life after  not having seen that person for a long time. You talk to a friend you haven't t alked to in 10 years. You want to find out what happened to that friend during those 10 years. You want to “catch up.”

Lucy ends by saying we just don't mention “how much  we've aged.” When you see this person after a long time, you don't talk a bout how you have become older. “To age” means to become older.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

This has been a month for seeing old friends. I got  an email a couple of weeks ago from an old friend from college. She and her fa mily are visiting L.A. for a week. They plan to see family and to visit old frie nds. Since she moved away, I hadn't seen her in ages. I'm looking forward to mee ting her new kids and seeing her again.

Another old friend called this week. She and I were  buddies when we were young. She plans to swing by L.A. on her way to San  Francisco. We've made plans to have lunch. She works in Washington D.C. a nd is normally very busy. I'm glad she could make time for us to get together .

When we say good-bye to our friends, we always hope  to keep in touch. But, what with this and that, it's sometimes hard to do. With friends that I've fallen out of touch with, it's sometimes hard to meet agai n and pick up where we left off. We've both moved on to a different phase in our liv es. Some of my old friends have become very successful, and are living lives i n the fast lane. Other friends are having a more difficult time and are just makin g ends meet. But, no matter how they're doing, it's always nice to touch base a gain.

I'm really looking forward to seeing these old pals  and catching up after all this time. We just won’t mention how much we’ve aged.

[end of story]

We’re glad she can make time to write our wonderful  scripts. Thank you, Dr. Lucy Tse.

