# Calling Tech Support

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 60 – Calling Tech Support.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 60. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss calling tec h support for help with your computer. Let's get started. > I recently signed up for a new ISP for my office, u sing DSL. I managed to get the modem and the router configured properly, but now m y email won't work. I dug out the manual that came with the modem and called the toll-free line for technical support. I'm not a big fan of most IT dep artments, but if something doesn't work, they're the only game in town.
> I explained to the tech support person that I could n't get my email to send or receive. He asked me if I had checked the Ethernet connection from the modem to the router, and I said I did. Then he asked if I  had run any diagnostics on the email software and if I was able to connect to the web. I said no to both of these questions.
> He told me he would submit a ticket and have the pr oblem escalated to the next level. Someone should be calling me back, he said. I won’t hold my breath.

I began the podcast by saying that I “signed up for  a new ISP for my office.” “To sign up” for something means to register or to purc hase something. Usually we “sign up” for some sort of service that someone is going to give me, or to give us. I “signed up” here means I bought a new “ISP.” “ISP ” stands for, or means, “Internet Service Provider.” This is the company th at provides you with Internet access in your home or in your office.

I was signing up for a “DSL” Internet service. “DSL ” is an Internet connection that comes over your phone lines. The other type of conn ection would be a “cable Internet” connection, where it comes through a sepa rate cable that is used to bring you your cable television stations. But I’m t alking about a “DSL,” which is a

phone connection. It’s a fast connection. It’s not a “dial-up” connection. A “dial- up” connection is not very fast. “DSL” is much fast er, and cable is usually faster than “DSL” in the United States.

Anyway, I said, “I managed to get the modem and the  router configured properly.” “To manage” something means that you suc ceeded – you were successful in something. “I managed to find a chair  in the crowded classroom.” “To manage” also means to work with people. To be the “manager” of someone or some people means that you are sort of the boss.  But here, the verb “to manage to get” – using it with another verb – means  that you were successful. “I managed to call my father last night”; I had some d ifficulty but I managed to do it.

The “modem” is the part of your computer that conne cts so that you can get on the Internet or get on email. A “router” is kind of  a box. The box will divide or split up the signal to the other computers. They can each  have their own wire that connects to the router, or it could be a “wireless router.”

A “wireless router” is a router that you don’t need  wires for. It’s a router that works usually on what we call “Wi-Fi” (wifi), where  the computers can communicate with the Internet connection without having any wires connecting them. It’s a “wireless” connection just like your c ell phone is a “wireless” phone. There are no wires to connect it to a telephone lin e. It works through radio waves, if you will, in the air. You can tell that I  am not a computer expert.

I said that I “configured” the router and new modem  properly. “To configure” a piece of – a machine or a piece of software means that you set it up. You made sure that it was . . . all the parts were connected  correctly, okay? That you made sure that all of the information was provided in the software, for example – that is “to configure” something.

I said that I “dug out” my manual that came with the modem. “To dig out” literally means to take a shovel and put it in the ground to get rid of dirt. That tool we use to get rid of dirt or to dig a hole is called a “sh ovel.” But when we say, “I dug out my manual” or “I dug out my pictures in the drawer, ” we mean that it was put away in such a manner that it was difficult to find , or that we didn’t have it easily available to us.

So, I dug out my manual and I called the “toll-free ” number for technical support. “The toll-free line,” I said. “Toll-free” means, yo u probably know, you don’t have to pay for the call. In the United States, these we re – up until recently these were – all 800 numbers. So, instead of dialing 310-555-1 212, you would dial 800-555- 1212. The “800” means it didn’t cost you any money.

 By the way, in television and in movies we often us e the number 555-1212. That’s not a real telephone number; it’s what we ca ll a “phony” or a false number. And people will use it when they’re giving an examp le and they don’t want to give a real telephone number. I will not give my real te lephone number here on the podcast.

A “toll-free line” or a “number” is here . . . the “line” is really a telephone number for technical support. “Technical Support” is, as y ou probably know, the people you talk to when there is something wrong with your  computer.

I said I’m “not a big fan of most IT departments.” “To be a fan” of something means to like something or like a group of people. You can be a fan of a football team, for example. “IT” stands for Information Tech nology. These are the computer people who build computers, and program so ftware for computers, and so forth. I said that, unfortunately, “They’re the only game in town,” meaning there’s no one else that you can call. When we say,  “He’s the only game in town,” we mean he’s the only person who can do a ce rtain thing.

I called the “tech support” person. And we sometime s say “tech support” instead of “technical support”; it’s the same thing. I call ed the “tech support” person and they asked me to check my “Ethernet” connection. No w, an “Ethernet” connection is just a special type of computer conne ction we use, usually with connecting to the Internet, though you can also use  it to connect two computers to transfer files between computers. Do not ask me how to do that, however. I don’t know.

The tech support person asked me if I had run any “ diagnostics.” A “diagnostic” . . . the verb here is “to diagnose,” which means to figure out or to discover what is wrong with something. So, “diagnostics” means that,  in many software programs, you can run a program that will check to see what is wrong with your program or with your computer. I said I was not able to “conne ct to the web.” We use that verb “to connect,” meaning we are able to communica te with the connection, if you will, and be able to get on the Internet. That’ s called “connecting to the web.”

The technical support person said he would “submit a ticket.” Here, “to submit a ticket” – or we sometimes say a “trouble ticket” – means that he’s going to fill out a form. He’s going to fill out a piece of paper or type in a form on the computer and send it to someone else who will try to help me . So, submitting a “trouble ticket” to an IT department means that you are tell ing them what the problem is and asking them to help. The problem in my case was  “escalated to the next level.” “To escalate a problem” – “to escalate” any thing – means to bring it to a

higher level, to raise it up. Here, it means that the supervisor or the person who has more knowledge will look at my problem.

I ended by saying that I was told someone would cal l me back, or call me on the telephone, but I said, “I won’t hold my breath.” the expression “Don’t hold your breath” or “I won’t hold my breath” . . . your brea th, of course, is (breathing sound) – what you breathe, okay? That’s your breath , the air that comes in and out of your body. “To hold your breath” would be, of course, to stop breathing. But when we say, “I won’t hold my breath,” we mean “I don’t expect anything to happen” – that I don’t think this person will actua lly call me, in this case.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed. > I recently signed up for a new ISP for my office, u sing DSL. I managed to get the modem and the router configured properly, but now m y email won't work. I dug out the manual that came with the modem and called the toll-free line for technical support. I'm not a big fan of most IT dep artments, but if something doesn't work, they're the only game in town.
> I explained to the tech support person that I could n't get my email to send or receive. He asked me if I had checked the Ethernet connection from the modem to the router, and I said I did. Then he asked if I  had run any diagnostics on the email software and if I was able to connect to the web. I said no to both of these questions.
> He told me he would submit a ticket and have the pr oblem escalated to the next level. Someone should be calling me back, he said. I won’t hold my breath.

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.





