# Getting Dressed & Ready for Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 5: Getting Dress and Ready for Work

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number five. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, I’ll talk about getting dressed an d ready for work.

Let’s get started!

[Start of story]

I go back into my bedroom and open up closet door.  I have about 30 dress shirts, 10 pairs of pants, a half-dozen ties, and s ome sweaters, suit jackets, and t-shirts.  I pull out a clean pair of socks and und erwear, and then decide which shirt I’m going to wear today.  I’m terrible at col or coordinating, so I usually bring my wife in at this point to help match my shirt and  pants.  I put on my belt with the silver buckle and polish my shoes.  I put my cell p hone and car keys in my front pocket, and my wallet in the back one.

I put on my glasses and check myself in the mirror to make sure I look okay, and then go into the home office to get my bag.  I used  to carry a more traditional briefcase, but now I just use my computer bag to hold my laptop and my papers. Now it’s back into the kitchen to grab my Thermos o n the way out the door.  I lock the door and then hurry to my car in the garag e.  I’m usually running late and today is no exception!

[End of story]

Part four is called “Getting Dressed and Ready for Work.”  We began by me going into the bedroom and opening up my closet doo r.  “To open up” means here to open the door.  A “closet” (closet) is a pl ace, usually in your bedroom, where you put clothes—you store your clothing.  You  can also have a closet in other parts of your house, and it's usually a place  where you keep things—you store things.

Well, I “open up my closet door” and I look at my d ress shirts.  My “dress (dress) shirts” – two words. are the nice shirts, the shirt s that I can wear to work.  The

ESL Podcast 5 - Getting Dressed & Ready for Work

opposite of a dress shirt would be a “casual shirt”  (casual).  A dress shirt is a nice shirt; something that usually has a collar on it.  A “collar” (collar) is the top of the shirt, what goes around the neck.

Well, I look at my dress shirts and I look, also, a t my “pants” (pants). Pants are what you put on your legs.  You can have different kinds of pants.  Jeans is a type of pants.  We might say dress pants for nice p ants that you would wear to work.  I also have “ties”.  A “tie” (tie) is a long , thin thing that goes around your neck that men usually wear—often wear to work, and it comes in different colors, and that's your tie.

A “sweater” (sweater) is something that keeps you w arm.  It's like a shirt that's very thick.  You usually put a sweater over your shirt so that you can be warm. “Suit jackets” (suit jackets) – two words – are jac kets that you wear that are for a formal occasion.  So, if you are going to work, esp ecially if you were going to an interview, you would wear a suit jacket.  The word “suit” (suit) refers to a formal set of clothing for, in this case, a man.  For a ma n it would be pants and a, probably, white shirt and a suit jacket that goes o ver your shirt.  Usually, you would also have a tie that you wear.  That's a suit .  Well, a suit jacket is part of a suit.

A “t-shirt,” spelled (t-shirt)is a plain shirt that  you usually wear underneath a dress shirt.  So first, you put on a t-shirt—a white t-sh irt—then you would put on your shirt, and then you would put on you jacket.  T-shi rts can also be used by themselves as your main shirt.  It is usually an in formal occasion that you would just wear a t-shirt.  You probably wouldn't wear a t-shirt to your office, for example, though some people do.  And, many people h ave t-shirts that have things on them—that say things on them.  T-shirts u sually do not have a collar like a dress shirt does.

“I pull out a pair of socks and underwear.”  “Socks ” (socks) are the things you put on your feet before you put your shoe on.  Socks ca n be dark, or they can be light or white socks.  Normally you don't wear whit e socks with a formal suit; you would wear black or dark blue socks.

“Underwear” is the piece of clothing that you put o n and it covers up all of the— how should we say—things that you want to cover so that you can keep your pants and shirt clean.  Underwear is something that  goes over your back of your body, your butt or your rear, as well as the front of the body, whatever you have there.  Underwear can come for men in two basics st yles usually.  There can be boxer underwear, or “boxer” shorts (boxer) and that 's a kind of short—or rather, a

ESL Podcast 5 - Getting Dressed & Ready for Work

kind of underwear that it is loose on the bottom.  So, it's almost like a pair of shorts.  The opposite of that would be “briefs” (br iefs).  Briefs would be underwear that is not loose at the bottom; it's tig ht at the bottom of the underwear.  Usually it's a little smaller as well.

I “then decide which shirt I'm going to wear today.   “I'm terrible,” I say, “at color coordinating.”  “Color coordinating” means you wear  things that have similar or matching colors.  So, if you wore a pink shirt you would probably not wear green pants because they don't do together, we would say;  they don't look very good with each other.  Color coordinating is finding the  right colors that you wear on your—with your shirt, and your pants, and your tie,  and your jacket, and your socks, and your shoes.  All of those have to be col or coordinated.  The verb “to coordinate,” (coordinate) means to put two things t ogether so that they work well together, in this case.

Well, since I'm so terrible—I'm so bad—at color coo rdinating I usually bring in my wife, that is I go and ask my wife to come into the  room.  So, I “bring my wife in”—to the room— “at this point to help me,” meanin g at this time, when I've already picked out some things, then I bring my wif e to help me “match my shirt and pants.”  I want them color coordinate.

“I put on my belt with the silver buckle and polish  my shoes.”  A “belt” (belt) is what you use to keep your pants from falling down.  A buckle is the piece of, usually, metal in the front that connects the belt so it forms a circle around your body.  I have a silver buckle that I put on with my  belt.

I also “polish my shoes.”  “To polish” (polish) mea ns to clean and to make “shiny” (shiny).  When we say something is shiny, we mean t hat it's bright—it reflects light.  So, when you polish your shoes, you want th em to be clean but you also want them to look like they are bright—they are ref lecting light.  I polish my shoes and my head, so it's very shiny!

“I put my cell phone,” my cellular or mobile phone,  “and car keys in my front pocket.”  You have front pockets and you have back pockets in a pair of pants. So, I put my keys and cell phone in the front pocke t “and my wallet in the back” pocket.  My “wallet” (wallet) is where I put my money and my credit cards and my driver's license; all of those things go in my wall et.

“I put on my glasses,” because I cannot see without  my glasses very well, and I “check myself in the mirror.”  “To check yourself” means to look at yourself, usually in a mirror, and you can see how you look.  I usually look pretty ugly.  I

ESL Podcast 5 - Getting Dressed & Ready for Work

check myself in the mirror, and then I go into my “ home office,” or my office in my house and get my bag.  I used to carry a more tradi tional briefcase.”  A “briefcase” (briefcase) – all one word – is not som ething that you put your underwear in—your briefs.  A briefcase means the th ing that you carry papers in when you are going from your home to your office.  Usually a briefcase is square and it usually has hard sides on it, many times it has a lock on the top; that's a briefcase.  A lot of people nowadays do not use a b riefcase; they use a computer bag—a bag that they can put their computer and othe r information in, including their papers.

Well, I put my things into my computer bag, then I go “back into the kitchen to grab my Thermos,” to get or take my Thermos with my  coffee in it “on the way out the door.”  The expression, “on the way out,” m eans that you are about to leave or you are leaving your house, in this case.  Somebody may call you on the phone and you are getting ready to go to dinner, yo u could say, “I can't talk right now, I'm on my way out the door,” means I'm just ge tting ready to leave.

Well, before I leave—before I'm going out the door— I “grab my Thermos.  I lock the door,” to my house, “and then I hurry to my car  in the garage.”  The “garage” (garage) is the place where you keep your car.

“I'm usually running late and today is no exception !”  When you are running late, you are behind your schedule; you're behind time th at you want to be somewhere.  “To run late” means the same as to be l ate or to be tardy (tardy). Usually that word, “tardy,” is only used in school.   We say a student is tardy, we mean that they are late for school or late for clas s.  To be running late means that you are not on the schedule that you want to b e on—that you did not leave at the time you wanted to leave.

I say “I'm running late and today is no exception!”   That expression, “is no exception” (exception) means that today is the same  as every other day—it is not different.  An exception is when something is diffe rent.  Well, today is no different, that means today is no exception—it is n ot different.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[Start of story]

I go back into my bedroom and open up my closet doo r.  I have about 30 dress shirts, 10 pairs of pants, a half-dozen ties, and s ome sweaters, suit jackets, and t-shirts.  I pull out a clean pair of socks and und erwear, then decide which shirt

ESL Podcast 5 - Getting Dressed & Ready for Work

I’m going to wear today.  I’m terrible at color coo rdinating, so I usually bring my wife in at this point to help match my shirt and pa nts.  I put on my belt with the silver buckle and polish my shoes.  I put my cell p hone and car keys in my front pocket, and my wallet in the back one. I put on my glasses and check myself in the mirror to make sure I look okay, and then go into the home office to get my bag.  I used  to carry a more traditional briefcase, but now I just use my computer bag to hold my laptop and my papers. Now it’s back into the kitchen to grab my Thermos o n the way out the door.  I lock the door and then hurry to my car in the garag e.  I’m usually running late and today is no exception!

[End of story]

Her scripts are always great, and this one is no ex ception. I speak of our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan,thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

______



