# Reading Magazines

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 50 – Reading Magazines.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 50. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode we're going to discuss reading a ma gazine. Let’s get started.  > I'm the first to admit that I'm hooked on reading m agazines. I've been this way as long as I can remember. I love picking up magazines  about different topics. Currently, I subscribe to about six or seven magazi nes, although when I was getting professional journals during my days at the  university, I probably had 15 or 20 coming to my box every month.
> Now I read mostly for pleasure. I like to read The New Yorker  because it is so well written. I also get a copy of Atlantic Monthly  and Harper’s  every month because they have good coverage of cultural, politi cal, and social issues. My latest is to read book reviews. There are a couple of really good book reviews published in the U.S., including The New York Revie w of Books .
> But the best reviews for my money are The Times Lit erary Supplement  and the London Review of Books , both of which come out of England. I have to Thank my friend Gustavo for turning me on to those two. I pr efer to read the nonfiction reviews over the fiction ones, but that's me. Ah, t he joys of reading!

This is a story about reading magazines. I begin by  saying that “I’m the first to admit that I'm hooked on reading magazines.” The ex pression “the first to admit” means I'm the first person who is willing to say. W e use this expression when we are talking about something, perhaps, that isn’t ve ry desirable – some bad habit that we have. We might also use this expression whe n we are saying something that perhaps is embarrassing or that we don't norma lly want to talk about. It's not for something serious. It's usually for something t hat isn't very important.

Here, I'm saying I'm the first to admit that I'm “h ooked on reading magazines.” “To be hooked (hooked) on” something means to be ad dicted to something or to

be obsessed with something. We can talk about someo ne being “hooked on heroin” or “hooked on cocaine.” That means they hav e an addiction to those drugs. So, now you can see that “to be hooked on” s omething is a somewhat negative idea, and that goes well with the expressi on “I'm the first to admit.” Of course, being hooked on reading magazines isn't the  same as being hooked on drugs.

“I've been this way,” I continue, “as long as I can  remember.” The expression “as long as I can remember” means as far back as I can remember. It's a phrase we use to show that we can't remember a time when this  wasn't true. I say, “I love picking up magazines about different topics.” “To p ick up” means often to buy, although it could just mean to pick it up with your  hand, to grab it with your hand. I say, “I love picking up magazines about different  topics” – different areas.

“Currently, I subscribe to about six or seven magaz ines.” “To subscribe” (subscribe) means to sign up to receive something –  to say, “Yes, I would like to get this on a regular basis.” You subscribe to this  podcast; you get each new issue or each new episode. You subscribe to a newsp aper or to a magazine, and when you do, you get each issue of that newspaper o r magazine.

I continue by saying, “Although when I was getting professional journals during my days at the university, I probably had 15 or 20 coming to my box each month.” A “professional journal” (journal) is a mag azine written by experts on a certain topic, usually designed for or written for people who are researchers or professors in that particular area of study. I say I used to get many of these “during my days at the university,” meaning during the time that I was working at the university. I say, “I probably had 15 or 20 com ing to my box,” meaning my mailbox, “every month.”

“Now I read mostly for pleasure,” I say. “To read f or pleasure” means to read for enjoyment – not to read in order to get information , necessarily, or at least not to read something for your work or for school, but sim ply because you want to read it. I say, “I like to read The New Yorker  because it is so well written.” When we say something is “well written,” we mean it is writ ten in such a way that is interesting. It is written in such a way that we kn ow this person has a lot of talent and skill. It's enjoyable to read.

“I also get a copy of Atlantic Monthly  and Harper’s  every month,” I say, “because they have good coverage of cultural, political, and  social issues.” The word “coverage” (coverage) means with reports or informa tion about a certain topic. We could talk about the movie coverage or the enter tainment industry coverage in the Los Angeles Times  newspaper. When we say “coverage,” we’re referring

to the stories that are written about that topic. I f you say a newspaper has good coverage of a certain area, you mean they have good  writers and reporters who explain and talk about and write stories about that  particular area.

I then say, “My latest is to read book reviews.” Wh en someone says “my latest,” they mean “the most recent or newest thing that I h ave started doing.” It could be a good thing. It could be a bad thing. “My latest i s to read book reviews” – articles written about books that have recently been publish ed, usually. We use the term “book review” for this particular kind of magazine that is about books that have been written recently. A “review” is someone's opin ion about something.

You could have “movie reviews.” You can have “book reviews.” You could have reviews, I guess, of apps for your mobile phone or for your computer. Here, we’re talking about reviews or opinions about books. The magazine is called a “book review.” “Book reviews” are also popular in newspap ers, especially on Sunday. In the United States, the newspapers on Sunday are alw ays bigger, always “thicker,” we would say. They have more sections in  them, and one section that's very common in many newspapers is a book review.

I say that there are a couple of really good book r eviews published in the U.S. “But,” I say, “the best reviews for my money are the Times Literary Supplement and the London Review of Books .” The expression “for my money” means that if I'm going to spend money on something, this is the best option for me. This is where you will get the most for your money, in othe r words. “For my money, the best hot dogs in Los Angeles can be purchased at Pi nk’s,” which is a little restaurant in the middle part of Los Angeles – very  famous for people who live here in Los Angeles.

When I say “for my money,” I mean if I'm going to s pend money, I'm going to spend it there because I'm going to get the best de al there. I’m going to get the most for my money. For my money, the best book revi ews are published not here in the United States, but in England. I say they “c ome out of England.” “To come out of” means to come from, to be created in a cert ain location.

I continue by saying, “I have to thank my friend Gu stavo for turning me on to those two” – those two book reviews. “To turn someo ne on to” something means to get someone interested in something. Don't confu se this with another, more dangerous, phrasal verb expression, “to turn someon e on.” “To turn someone on” means to get someone sexually interested or excited . We're not talking about that. We’re talking about getting someone simply in terested in a new topic or a new thing.

I end the story by saying, “I prefer to read the no nfiction reviews over the fiction ones, but that's me.” “Nonfiction” refers to books about things that are true, that contain true information or facts. “Fiction” refers  to books about imaginary stories, things that someone made up. I also use the express ion here, “that's me,” meaning that's the way I look at things. Grammatica lly, it should be “that’s I,” but we never say that. We say, “That's me.”

Finally, I say, “The joys of reading!” I’m talking about how wonderful it is to read. The word “joys” here refers to the pleasures, the g ood things you get from reading.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.  > I'm the first to admit that I'm hooked on reading m agazines. I've been this way as long as I can remember. I love picking up magazines  about different topics. Currently, I subscribe to about six or seven magazi nes, although when I was getting professional journals during my days at the  university, I probably had 15 or 20 coming to my box every month.
> Now I read mostly for pleasure. I like to read The New Yorker  because it is so well written. I also get a copy of Atlantic Monthly  and Harper’s  every month because they have good coverage of cultural, politi cal, and social issues. My latest is to read book reviews. There are a couple of really good book reviews published in the U.S., including The New York Revie w of Books .
> But the best reviews for my money are The Times Lit erary Supplement  and the London Review of Books , both of which come out of England. I have to Thank my friend Gustavo for turning me on to those two. I pr efer to read the nonfiction reviews over the fiction ones, but that's me. Ah, t he joys of reading!

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.



