# Making a Good Impression

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 22 – Making a Good Impression.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 22. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode talks about how to act in a job interv iew. Let's get started. > My interview is today. It is with a large corporati on with its headquarters in San Francisco, California. It also has satellite office s across the U.S. and in Europe. I'm not sure if this will be the right fit for me, but I'm keeping an open mind.
> I got some sound advice from my aunt. She said I sh ould be confident but not cocky. That means I have to look for opportunities to talk about myself but not make the mistake of boasting or, worse, making thin gs up. I do that sometimes when I get really nervous. My brain stops working a nd my mouth keeps going.
> I need to be respectful but not meek. I want to be professional with everyone – my co-workers and my bosses – but I don't want them  to think that I would let my co-workers walk all over me.
> I should show them that I'm a team player. Nobody l ikes a person who tries to grab the limelight all of the time, especially if t hey're new, like me.
> Okay, I think I'm ready. I just have to remember to  be confident, calm, respectful, professional, and a team player. No problem, right?

We are going on an interview in this episode, or at  least we’re getting ready to go on an interview in order to make a good impression.  The expression “to make a good impression” means to show the other person how  good you are, how attractive you are – in this case, how right you ar e for this job. “To make a bad impression” is the opposite: to make the person thi nk that you're not a very good person.

I say that my interview is today with “a large corp oration” that has its “headquarters in San Francisco.” A “corporation” is  a large company, typically. “Headquarters” (headquarters) is the main location of the business, of a certain business. Some big corporations – some big companie s – have offices in many different cities, but there is one place that is the main office. We would call that the “headquarters.” It always has an “s” at the end , even though it is singular.

The headquarters is in San Francisco. This company also has “satellite offices.” The expression “satellite (satellite) office” refer s to a small office of a large company – not the headquarters, but other offices i n other cities.

“I'm not sure,” I say, “if this will be the right f it for me.” The expression “the right (right) fit (fit)” means the one that is best for m e. We might also use the word “suitable” (suitable). Something that is suitable i s something that matches your qualifications and your interests. I say that I'm “ keeping an open mind.” That's a popular expression. “To keep an open mind” means yo u are willing to think about something new or different. You're not going to jus t say no to any new idea; you'll think about new possibilities.

I continued by saying that I “got some sound advice  from my aunt.” “Sound” (sound) is intelligent, reasonable, good. “Advice” refers to suggestions that other people have about how you should behave or what you  should do. “Sound advice,” then, would be good, reasonable suggestion s – in this case, about how to perform on the job interview. My “aunt” (aunt) i s the sister of either my father or my mother.

I say that my aunt said that I should be “confident  but not cocky.” “To be confident” means to know that you can do something.  “To be cocky” (cocky), however, means to be arrogant – to know that you ar e going to do a good job but to behave as though you are better than other peopl e. “To be cocky” means to think that you are the best or you are better than most other people. It's not a positive thing. It's definitely not something that you want people to say about you, usually.

I say that I need to “look for opportunities” – loo k for or be aware of possibilities – “to talk about myself” during the interview, but I don't want to “make the mistake of boasting.” “To boast” (boast) means to brag (bra g), which means to tell other people about how good you are in order to make your self more important than everyone else. “Boasting” is something that a cocky  person would do.

“To make things up” means to lie, to say something that is not true. I say that I “don't want to make things up.” However, I also say  that “I do that sometimes,”

meaning I do make things up, or perhaps boast when I get really nervous. “My brain” – my mind – “stops working and my mouth keep s going.” In other words, I'm talking without really thinking carefully about  what I'm saying.

I then say that, according to my aunt, I need to be  “respectful but not meek.” “To be meek” (meek) means to be shy and weak – not to b e very strong. “Meekness” is something that some people try to be in order to  be humble, but if you are working in a business, in a corporation, it's not u sually a good thing to be meek. You want to be a little stronger in terms of your c haracter, especially in terms of dealing with other employees, other co-workers.

That's what I say in the story: I don't want to be meek, but I do want to be respectful. I want to be nice to other people and t o give them the respect they deserve. I say I want to be “professional with ever yone – my co-workers and my bosses.” Your “co-workers” are the people who work with you, who are at the same level as you are – not your bosses, not your s upervisors.

I say that I don't want them to think “that I would  let my co-workers walk all over me.” The expression “to walk all over someone” mean s to take advantage of someone, to use someone who will allow you to do wh atever you want to do, but not in a good way. “To walk all over someone” is to  overpower them in a way, to not allow them to do what they want or say what the y want. You don't want someone to walk all over you in a job. You want to be strong enough to defend yourself, to defend your ideas.

I say that I should “show them” – I should demonstr ate to the people who are interviewing me – “that I'm a team player.” “To be a team player” means you work well with other people. You are able to get along w ith your co-workers.

I then say, “Nobody likes a person who tries to gra b the limelight all of the time.” The expression “to grab (grab) the limelight (limel ight)” means to be looking for attention, to want to be the focus of everyone's at tention, to want everyone to look at you or pay attention to you. I say nobody l ikes a person like that, “especially if that person is new” – new to the com pany, like I would be.

I end by saying that “I think I'm ready. I just hav e to remember to be confident, calm” – not nervous – “respectful, professional, an d a team player.” And then, somewhat jokingly, at the end I say, “No problem, r ight?” meaning those are actually very difficult things to do all at the sam e time. If you've ever had a very bad job interview, you know how difficult it is som etimes to be confident and calm.

I had a really bad job interview once or twice when  I was interviewing for a position to be a teacher. I got very nervous. I don 't even remember what I said, but I didn't get the job. We only hope that the per son in the interview in this episode has better luck.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.  > My interview is today. It is with a large corporati on with its headquarters in San Francisco, California. It also has satellite office s across the U.S. and in Europe. I'm not sure if this will be the right fit for me, but I'm keeping an open mind.
> I got some sound advice from my aunt. She said I sh ould be confident but not cocky. That means I have to look for opportunities to talk about myself but not make the mistake of boasting or, worse, making thin gs up. I do that sometimes when I get really nervous. My brain stops working a nd my mouth keeps going.
> I need to be respectful but not meek. I want to be professional with everyone – my co-workers and my bosses – but I don't want them  to think that I would let my co-workers walk all over me.
> I should show them that I'm a team player. Nobody l ikes a person who tries to grab the limelight all of the time, especially if t hey're new, like me.
> Okay, I think I'm ready. I just have to remember to  be confident, calm, respectful, professional, and a team player. No problem, right?

Our scriptwriter never tries to grab the limelight,  but we want to give her a little of the limelight right now. Thank you, Dr. Lucy Tse.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

