# Noisy Neighbors

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 56 – Noisy Neighbors.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 56. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss noisy neigh bors. Let's get started. > I live in a quiet neighborhood. At least that's wha t I thought until last week.
> I live in a cul-de-sac in a residential neighborhoo d in Los Angeles. There is a nice retired couple that lives kitty-corner from me. The y have always been very friendly and we have gotten along very well.
> About three months ago, they decided to renovate th eir garage and turn it into a guesthouse. Since they don’t have a lot of money, t hey wanted to rent out the unit to help make ends meet.
> A new renter moved in about three weeks ago, and th at's when the trouble began. She was a student at the local university an d she liked to invite her friends over. The trouble was they kept very late h ours, and they liked to play loud music. My neighbors were at their wits' end. T hey talked to their tenant several times about the noise, but nothing worked. Finally, they asked her to move out. Fortunately, she was on a month-to-month lease and they didn't have any problems.
> Now that my neighbors have learned their lesson, th eir new tenant is a nice widow with two cats. I'm so glad that everything wo rked out in the end!

Today’s story had to do with my noisy neighbors. I started by saying that “I live in a quiet neighborhood. . . . I live in a cul-de-sac”  (cul) (de) (sac). It comes from French. It’s one of the many loan words, or words t hat we borrow in English from other languages. A “cul-de-sac” is street that is a  “dead end” that doesn’t go any farther. It’s where a street ends and there are hou ses around this little – normally,

a circle – and it’s considered a quiet place, usual ly, because there isn’t very much traffic. The road ends in the cul-de-sac.

So, we live in a cul-de-sac in a “residential neigh borhood.” A “residential neighborhood” just means that’s a neighborhood wher e there are lots of houses and apartments, not a lot of buildings or businesse s or factories. If it’s “residential,” that means it’s usually mostly house s and apartments. It comes from the word “resident,” which is someone who live s in a place. I am a resident of Los Angeles; I live here.

There’s “a nice retired couple that lives kitty-cor ner from me.” A “couple” is two people – a man and a wife, for example – who live t ogether. The couple lives “kitty-corner.” “Kitty (kitty) corner,” two words. Imagine you have two streets that cross, okay? The building that is on the southwest corner is “kitty-corner” from the building on the northeast corner. It’s diagonal  from the house or the building. So, this house is “kitty-corner,” meaning it’s diag onal – not right next to me but diagonal across the street.

I said that this couple has “always been very frien dly” and that we “have gotten along very well.” “To get along” with someone, you probably know, means to be friendly, to be polite – not to have any arguments.  This is what we want from all of our neighbors, that they get along. Actually, th at they just be quiet. That would be more important to me.

The neighbors “decided to renovate their garage and  turn it into a guesthouse.” “To renovate” means to make better, to change – par ticularly a house or a building. “We are going to renovate our house” mean s we’re going to add something to it, change it, improve it, make it bet ter. A “garage,” you know, is where you park your car – where you put your car. I  said they were going to “turn it into.” “To turn something into” means to change it into – in this case, a “guesthouse,” all one word. “Guesthouse” is, you ca n guess, a place where you have someone staying who is a guest of yours. It co uld be a family member. It could be someone that you rent the guesthouse to.

I said this couple doesn’t have a lot of money, so they “wanted to rent out the unit to help make ends meet.” “To rent out” is the same as to rent. Remember, in English we have lots of verbs where we add a prepos ition at the end. It doesn’t change the meaning often. “To rent,” “to rent out” mean really the same thing. When we talk about an apartment or a condominium or  a townhouse, we call each one of those a “unit.” You could have “a 20-un it apartment building,” meaning there are 20 apartments that you can rent.

My neighbors wanted “to help make ends meet.” “To make ends meet” means you can pay for all of your bills: your gas bill, y our mortgage, your downloads from the iTunes music store . . . all of those thin gs are part of “making ends meet.”

The trouble began with my neighbor when a “new rent er” – a “renter” (renter), a noun for someone who rents – a “new renter” moved i n. She was “a student at the local university” and she and her friends liked  to keep “very late hours.” “To keep late hours” means that you stay up. You don’t go to bed until very late. They liked to “keep late hours” and “play loud music,” a nd my neighbors “were at their wits’ end.”

The expression “to be at your wits’ end” means that  you don’t know what to do. You’ve tried everything else. You can’t think of a solution. You are desperate. The word “wits” (wits) is another word for intellig ence, ability. “He doesn’t have his wits about him” is another expression with this  word “wits.” “To have your wits about you” means to know what you are doing, to hav e some intelligence. Here, “to be at your wits’ end (end)” means that you’ve r eached the end, if you will, of your intelligence. You don’t know what to do: “to b e at your wits’ end.”

My neighbors asked their “tenant” (tenant) – that’s  a noun meaning the same as a “renter”; a “tenant” is someone who rents a build ing or apartment, a house – they asked their “tenant” or “renter” to “move out. ” “To move out” – again, notice that verb with the preposition “out” – “to move out ” means, really, to move, to leave a place. So, we add that word “out” to give i t a little more emphasis. “To move out” means to move to another place, to leave.

The “renter” or “tenant” was on a “month-to-month l ease.” A “lease” (lease) is a contract or an agreement to rent a house, apartment , or some other building, or what we might call a “property.” “To be on a month- to-month lease” means that you only are obligated – you only have to stay some where – for 30 days. Then, if you want to leave, you can leave.

A different kind of lease would be a “one-year leas e,” where you are required to be there for one year, and if you leave or move out  before, you have to pay the difference in rent that you owe to the “landlord.”

Finally, I said that my neighbors had “learned thei r lesson.” “To learn your lesson,” as an expression, means that I know better  now. I won’t make that mistake again. I was wrong and the experience taugh t me something.

My neighbors rented their guesthouse to “a nice wid ow.” “Widow” is (widow). A “widow” is a woman whose husband has died. Or anoth er expression is “passed away.” When someone dies, we say, perhaps a little bit more politely, “They passed away.” Well, a “widow” is someone, a woman, whose husband has passed away. A man whose wife has passed away is ca lled a “widower,” with an -er at the end.

I said at the end that I was “so glad everything wo rked out in the end.” For something “to work out in the end” means that it ca me to a successful conclusion or resolution – that all the problems were solved.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed. > I live in a quiet neighborhood. At least that's wha t I thought until last week.
> I live in a cul-de-sac in a residential neighborhoo d in Los Angeles. There is a nice retired couple that lives kitty-corner from me. The y have always been very friendly and we have gotten along very well.
> About three months ago, they decided to renovate th eir garage and turn it into a guesthouse. Since they don’t have a lot of money, t hey wanted to rent out the unit to help make ends meet.
> A new renter moved in about three weeks ago, and th at's when the trouble began. She was a student at the local university an d she liked to invite her friends over. The trouble was they kept very late h ours, and they liked to play loud music. My neighbors were at their wits' end. T hey talked to their tenant several times about the noise, but nothing worked. Finally, they asked her to move out. Fortunately, she was on a month-to-month lease and they didn't have any problems.
> Now that my neighbors have learned their lesson, th eir new tenant is a nice widow with two cats. I'm so glad that everything wo rked out in the end!

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, Cali fornia, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcas t.



