# A Trip to the Jewelry Store

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 54 – A Trip to the Jewelry Store.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 54. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss shopping for jewelry at a jewelry store. Let's get started. > My wife's birthday was coming up and I wanted to ge t her a special present. She always tells me not to splurge on gifts for her, bu t for once, I decided to pull out all the stops.
> I went to the jewelry store and began looking at al l of the display cases. I started by looking at the bracelets. The sales clerk asked me if I was looking for a bangle or a chain bracelet. I told her that I wasn't sure,  and she showed me some in yellow gold, white gold, and platinum. None of them  seemed like my wife's style, so I moved on to the rings.
> The clerk asked me if my wife liked diamonds, and I  told her that she did but that she also liked other stones, like emeralds, rubies,  or sapphires. I looked at a lot of anniversary bands, but none really fit the bill.
> Finally, I walked over to the display case with the  necklaces. There was a pearl necklace with a really beautiful clasp. I had never  seen anything like it before and I was sure my wife was going to like it. I told the  clerk that I would take it.
> The clerk placed the necklace in its box and gift w rapped it. I have to say that when I left the store, I felt pretty proud of mysel f. I knew my wife would like the present, and I picked it out all by myself. Now, I can't wait to see the look on her face when she opens it!

Today we are talking about why I am such a good hus band, because I went to the jewelry store to buy my wife a gift. I said tha t my wife’s birthday was “coming up.” When we say an event or a date “is coming up,”  we mean that it will be here

soon. Sometimes you hear that on the television whe n a person reading the news announces a story that they are going to talk about in a few minutes. They’ll say, “Coming up: a story about birds,” or w hatever the story is.

Anyway, my wife’s birthday was coming up and so I wanted to give her a special “gift,” or “present.” “Gift” and “present” mean the  same thing. My wife always tells me not to “splurge.” “To splurge” (splurge) means t o spend a lot of money on something. “I’m going to splurge on dinner tonight and order the filet mignon or the New York steak.” You can splurge on anything: a  television, a computer, even an iPad.

I said that “for once” I decided to “pull out all t he stops.” “For once” here means “for this one time.” “For once, I want to see a goo d movie” means this one time, I want to see a good movie. Usually we use this expre ssion when we don’t normally expect to do a certain thing. For example,  “Normally I go jogging every morning, but for once, I’m going to try swimming.” That would be an example of using “for once.”

“To pull out all the stops” means to do the maximum  possible, to do as much as possible. If you throw a party for a friend, and yo u hire an orchestra with dancers and order wine and food, this would be “pulling out  all the stops” – doing the maximum or most that you could do. It would also be  very expensive. Now, the expression “to pull out all the stops” actually com es from music. On an organ, like an organ in a church, the “stops” are things that h elp control the volume of the organ, and pulling them out makes the organ louder.  So, “to pull out all the stops” means to do the most you can do.

I said I went to the “jewelry store,” and the “jewe lry store,” you probably know, is where you buy “jewelry” – things like rings and nec klaces and bracelets and so forth. I started by looking at the “display cases.”  When you walk into a jewelry store, usually there is a counter or a glass case w here they have all of the jewelry. A “case” is like a box where they keep the  jewelry so you can see it but you can’t touch it. A “display case,” then, is a ca se in a store that displays or shows something.

“I started by looking at the bracelets.” “Bracelets ,” you probably know, are things that go around your wrist. Both men and women can w ear bracelets. The sales clerk asked me if I was looking for a “bangle” or a  “chain bracelet.” There are two kinds of bracelets, basically. A “chain bracelet” i s made up of little pieces. We call those little pieces of a chain “links” (links). So,  a “chain bracelet” is flexible and it has little pieces that go all around your wrist. A “bangle bracelet” is solid. It’s one piece. You can put it on and it isn’t flexible like  a chain bracelet is.

 The clerk showed me some bracelets “in yellow gold,  white gold, and platinum.” “Yellow gold” is, you could say, normal gold. It’s a gold color. “White gold” is also gold, but it is a silver or a silver-white color. A nd “platinum” is one of the most expensive types of metal. It is also silver-white i n color. Gold, silver, platinum, white gold, yellow gold – these are all “precious m etals.” “Precious” here means somewhat rare, and because they are rare, they are expensive: precious metals.

I decided none of the bracelets were my wife’s “sty le,” or the kind of look that she would like. So, “I moved on,” or I went to look at,  the display case with the rings. “Rings,” of course, are things that you put on your  finger or your toes. We call a ring on your toe a “toe ring.” But if we just say “ ring,” we usually mean for your fingers. When you get married, you put a ring on. R ings have different types of “stones.” Diamonds, emeralds, rubies, sapphires – t hese are all stones that you can put on a ring.

A “diamond” is one of the hardest stones and is ver y expensive. “Emeralds” are green stones, usually. “Rubies” are sort of a red o r purple-red stone. “Sapphires” are usually blue. These are all expensive stones th at you can put on your ring or somewhere else. You also call these “gems” (gems). A “gem” is an expensive stone that’s used usually for jewelry. A “precious gem” or a “precious stone” is like a precious metal – a rare and, therefore, usua lly expensive type of stone.

I said I looked at a lot of “anniversary bands.” A “band” here is another word for a ring, and an “anniversary band” is often just a pla in ring with no stones on it. Usually, in the United States anyway, when a man ge ts married, he gets a “wedding band.” It’s a ring that usually doesn’t ha ve any stones in it, but it can. Mine doesn’t.

I said that none of these really “fit the bill.” Wh en we say something “fits the bill,” we mean it is appropriate, it is correct, it is rig ht for this situation. “To fit the bill” can be used for lots of different things. “I interv iewed three people today, but none of them had sufficient experience – none of th em fit the bill.” None of them was what I was looking for.

I finally went over and looked at the “necklaces.” A “necklace” is a chain that goes around your neck. There was a “pearl necklace. ” “Pearls” are not stones, but they are a very hard substance that you find in  an oyster. If you have an oyster and you open it up, it will often have a pea rl inside. The “pearl necklace” – the necklace made of pearls – that I was looking at  had a “very beautiful clasp.” A “clasp” (clasp) is what you use to connect a neckla ce or sometimes a chain bracelet. It’s usually in the back and usually very  difficult to do, at least for me.

So, that’s the “clasp.” It holds the necklace toget her so you can put it on and take it off easily.

I told the clerk that I “would take” the pearl neck lace. “I would take it.” This is an expression we can use when we buy something. The sa lesperson says, “How do you like this television?” and you say, “That’s a n ice television. I’ll take it,” meaning I want to buy it. The clerk puts the neckla ce in a box and then “gift wrapped it.” “To gift wrap,” as a verb, means to pu t wrapping paper, usually colored paper, on the box to make it look nice. We call that “gift wrapping.”

I said that I was feeling “pretty proud of myself,”  which means I thought I did a good job, because I picked out the gift “all by mys elf,” meaning with no one else helping me. I ended by saying, “I can’t wait to see  the look on her face when she opens it.” When we say “the look on your face,” usu ally it’s because you are surprised or you’re scared. For example, “I threw a  surprise birthday party for my friend. You should’ve seen the look on his face whe n he came in the door and everyone yelled, ‘Surprise!’” That would be an exam ple of using this expression.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

My wife's birthday was coming up and I wanted to ge t her a special present. She always tells me not to splurge on gifts for her, bu t for once, I decided to pull out all the stops.

I went to the jewelry store and began looking at al l of the display cases. I started by looking at the bracelets. The sales clerk asked me if I was looking for a bangle or a chain bracelet. I told her that I wasn't sure,  and she showed me some in yellow gold, white gold, and platinum. None of them  seemed like my wife's style, so I moved on to the rings.

The clerk asked [me] if my wife liked diamonds, and  I told her that she did but that she also liked other stones, like emeralds, ru bies, or sapphires. I looked at a lot of anniversary bands, but none really fit the b ill.

Finally, I walked over to the display case with the  necklaces. There was a pearl necklace with a really beautiful clasp. I had never  seen anything like it before and I was sure my wife was going to like it. I told the  clerk that I would take it.

The clerk placed the necklace in its box and gift w rapped it. I have to say that when I left the store, I felt pretty proud of mysel f. I knew my wife would like the

present, and I picked it out all by myself. Now, I can't wait to see the look on her face when she opens it!

[end of story]

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.





