# Picking a Wardrobe

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 53 – Picking a Wardrobe.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 53. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to discuss picking clo thes to wear. Let's get started. > I'm one of those people who don't have much of a fa shion sense. I mean, I know that I shouldn't wear a pink shirt with green pants , but beyond that I'm pretty much a basket case when it comes to picking my ward robe.
> I have plenty of short-sleeve and long-sleeve dress  shirts; some have a button- down collar and some have a shirt pocket in them. I  also own some more casual shirts with a collar, and a ton of T-shirts with ju st about every logo you can think of. I have a couple of good pairs of black slacks f or formal occasions, along with khakis and jeans for more informal events.
> Naturally, I have one nice suit to wear to weddings , funerals, and job interviews, with a suit coat, tie, a belt with a nice-looking b uckle, and pants. I also own a sports coat, but I don't use it much. Well, I bet ter stop talking and start dressing. I'm late for work!

Today’s story is about picking a wardrobe. A “wardr obe” – all one word (wardrobe) – means all of the clothing that you can  wear. “I have a very small wardrobe” means I don’t have very many things I can  wear. A wardrobe is all of your clothing that you own. A wardrobe can also mea n a place where you put your clothing – it’s like a tall cabinet. We call t hat a wardrobe as well.

I started by saying that I didn’t have “much of a f ashion sense.” “Fashion,” you probably know, means a kind of clothing. The kind of style that someone has, the way they look, is part of fashion. And a “fashion s ense” (sense) is the ability to know what would be a good look for someone. That’s someone with a good fashion sense. I don’t have a good fashion sense.

I then said, “I mean, I know that you shouldn’t wea r a pink shirt with green pants.” The expression “I mean” at the beginning of the sen tence is a very common conversational, informal way that we sort of fill u p the space when we are talking, fill up time. It’s like “ah” or “um.” Sometimes we use it, however, a little more specifically, to clarify – to make clear – our mean ing. So, I could say to someone, “I’m going to the store. I mean the grocery store d own the street.”

I said that when it comes to fashion, “I’m pretty m uch of a basket case.” “Basket case” usually refers to someone who has mental or e motional problems, and they have so many problems that they can’t do what they are supposed to do in their job or in their work. We use it here kind of in a joking way. I say, “I’m pretty much a basket case when it comes to picking my ward robe,” meaning I’m not very good at it – I can’t do a very good job.

I said I had “short-sleeve and long-sleeve dress shirts.” The sleeve of your shirt is the part that goes on your arms, and you can guess that “short-sleeve shirts” are shirts where the sleeve only goes down part of your  arm, usually just covering your biceps. Your biceps are those muscles that are  in the top part of your upper arm. Those are biceps, and triceps are on the botto m part of your upper arm. “Long-sleeve shirts” are shirts where the sleeve go es down to your wrist. Your wrist is what connects your hand to the rest of you r arm. That part is called your wrist. So, a “long-sleeve shirt” would go down to y our wrist.

I mentioned that I also own some “button-down colla r shirts.” You have buttons on your shirt. Usually you put each button into a l ittle hole called a “buttonhole,” which keeps the shirt from coming off of you or fro m opening in the front. The “collar” is the part of the shirt that goes around your neck, and a “button-down collar” is a collar that has buttons in the front t hat keep it attached to the rest of the shirt. So, a “button-down collar shirt” would b e a shirt with a button-down collar.

I also said that some of my shirts have a “shirt po cket” in them. A “pocket,” like a pocket in your pants, is a little place where you can keep things, where you can hold things. A “shirt pocket” is a place where you can find your glasses, or a pen, or a piece of paper, and so forth – an iPod, perhap s.

I said that I had “a ton of T-shirts with just abou t every logo you can think of.” “T- shirts” – which is just the letter T - (shirts) – “ T-shirts” are shirts that don’t have a collar, that are usually short sleeve, and that are  used for very informal occasions. Or, you sometimes wear a T-shirt underne ath a more formal shirt, usually a white T-shirt. Nowadays, you have T-shirt s that have all sorts of things printed on them, and companies that have their logo s printed on them use them

as advertising. A “logo” is a symbol that a company  uses. For example, the logo for Nike sportswear – (nike), Nike – is a little ch eck mark. That would be a logo.

I used the expression “every logo you can think of. ” This is a common way of saying “lots and lots” of a particular thing. “Ever y person you could think of was there,” meaning everyone that you know was there. S o, lots of people. I said that I have a couple of “pairs of black slacks.” We talk  about pants or “slacks,” and “slacks” is just another word for pants. It’s usual ly more formal pants. We sometimes call those “slacks” (slacks). We always t alk about a “pair” of pants or a “pair” of slacks.

I mentioned that I own some “khakis and jeans.” “Je ans,” you probably know, are usually blue and are made out of a thick cotton mat erial. “Khaki” is a brownish- yellow material that you can make pants, called “kh akis,” out of. And they’re very popular. “Khakis” were originally used for the mili tary, but now anyone can buy pants made from that material.

I said I own “one nice suit.” A “suit” describes pa nts, shirt, and a suit coat – a coat that goes over your shirt – and usually a tie. All those things together are a “suit.” Usually, you’ll also have a “belt,” which is what g oes around the top of your pants and holds them up. It keeps your pants from falling  down. You wouldn’t want that to happen. A belt has a “buckle,” and the buckle is  the part that you use to hold the belt together. It’s in the very front of your p ants.

Finally, I said I own “a sports coat.” A “sports co at” is a jacket or coat that is used for more informal occasions. So, you wouldn’t go to  a wedding or a funeral with a sports coat. You’d use a “suit coat.” A sports coat  is a little less formal.

Now let’s listen to our story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

I'm one of those people who don't have much of a fa shion sense. I mean, I know that I shouldn't wear a pink shirt with green pants , but beyond that I'm pretty much a basket case when it comes to picking my ward robe.

I have plenty of short-sleeve and long-sleeve dress  shirts; some have a button- down collar, some have a shirt pocket in them. I al so own some more casual shirts with a collar, and a ton of T-shirts with ju st about every logo you can think of. I have a couple of good pairs of black slacks f or formal occasions, along with khakis and jeans for more informal events.

Naturally, I have one nice suit to wear to weddings , funerals, and job interviews, with a suit coat, tie, a belt with a nice-looking b uckle, and pants. I also own a sports coat, but I don't use it much. Well, I bet ter stop talking and start dressing. I'm late for work!

[end of story]

Thanks to our great scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for  all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening.





