# Cleaning Up

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 3: Cleaning Up

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number three. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, the second of our 10-part special series on daily English, I’ll talk about getting cleaned up in the morning to go to wo rk.

Let’s get started!

 [Start of story] I go into my bathroom sometime around 6:45 a.m. My sink and medicine cabinet are on the left when you enter my bathroom. The toi let is next to that, with the tub in front. Anyway, I turn on the lights, and try to find the mouthwash in the medicine cabinet. I pour a small amount into a cup,  swish it around for 30 seconds, gargle, and spit. Not pleasant, but necess ary. Then I get out the floss. When I’m done flossing, I pull out the toothbrush a nd the toothpaste. I brush and then it’s off to the shower. I pull the shower curtain aside, step into the tub,  and pull the curtain back. I turn on both the hot and the cold water, looking for the  perfect temperature. I lather up with soap, put some shampoo in my hair, then rinse and dry off. Now it’s shaving time. I used to own an electric razor, but I found it didn’t shave close enough. So now I’m back to the old hand razor. I lather up wit h shaving cream, and I start to shave. I rinse the razor and throw the disposable b lades in the trash. It’s about 7:00 AM, and I’m on to breakfast. [End of story] In this episode, we are “Cleaning Up,” or making ou rselves clean. “I go into my bathroom,” I begin the story, “someti me around 6:45 a.m.” Notice that we say a.m., but you could also say “in the mo rning.” 6:45 is also the same as quarter to seven. “My sink and medicine cabinet are on the left when you enter my bathroom.” In your bathroom and in your ki tchen there is usually a sink and a faucet. The faucet “faucet” is where the wate r comes out, and normally you have hot water and cold water. The sink is where the water goes into. Usually, it is a round or a square white bowl, really, that has  a hole at the bottom and we

call that hole the drain (drain). That's where the water goes down into the pipe, it's where the water goes out of the sink. If you want to fill your sink with water, you usually have to stop the drain. “To stop a drai n” means to put something over it so that the water doesn't go down. So, we have a faucet and we have a sink, and in you r bathroom, you often have a small box, sometimes with a mirror on it so you can see yourself, that we call the medicine cabinet. A “cabinet” (cabinet) is like  a small box where you put things, but it's a box that hangs on the wall; it is attached to the wall. You can have cabinets in your kitchen, where you put your d ishes. So, they're containers, they're things that you used to put and store or ke ep things. A medicine cabinet is a place where you have medici ne, but also, it's a place where you put your other things that you use in the  bathroom - things like mouthwash, shaving cream, razors, and so forth. We' ll talk about those in a second. So that's your medicine cabinet. In my bathroom, the “sink and the medicine cabinet are on the left” side when you walk into the bathroom; the toilet is next to t hat. “The toilet” (toilet) is what you use to go to the bathroom, what you use to get rid of things from your body, we might say. When you are done using the toilet, y ou then flush the toilet. The verb, “to flush” (flush) is when you get rid of wha t's inside the toilet after you're done using it, usually with water. There is a tub in my bathroom. A “tub” (tub) someti mes called a bathtub, is where you can take a bath. You can fill the tub up with w ater and you can get into the water. “Anyway,” I say in the story, “I turn on the lights .” Notice the use of the word “anyway.” It's very common in English to use that w ord when you want to get back to something you were talking about before. We  can also say, “As I was saying,” it means something similar here. “Anyway, I turn on the lights, and try to find the mouthwash in the medicine cabinet.” The “mouthwash” (mouthwash) – all one wor d – is a liquid like water, but it has something in it that helps clean your te eth, clean the inside of your mouth; that is mouthwash. So, you take the mouthwas h and you “pour a small amount into a cup.” The mouthwash usually comes in,  or is in, a bottle. This bottle, you take and you pour some mouthwash into a  cup. To pour means to take something that is liquid, like water or mouthw ash, and put it somewhere else. In this case, it's into a small cup.

After I put it into the cup, I “swish it around for  30 seconds.” “To swish (swish) something around” means to move it around, and we u se that verb usually when talking about something that is liquid like water o r mouthwash that you move back and forth very quickly. So, when you put the m outhwash in your mouth, usually you take your sides of your mouth, what we would call your “cheeks” (cheeks), your cheeks, and you move them back and f orth, so that the mouthwash covers and cleans all of your teeth. After “I swish it around,” I “gargle.” The verb “to  gargle (gargle) means to take water and to put it into your back of your mouth. I  will have to demonstrate this. It's easier to understand if you can hear it. [Garg ling sound] That's to gargle. That's just an extra little bonus for listening to this episode; you get to hear me gargle! Well, after I gargle, I have to get rid of or remov e the water from my mouth, and I do that by spitting. “To spit” (spit) means to take  something that's liquid, like water, and to remove it from your mouth. Usually, y ou make a certain sound like [spitting sound] - something like that. Well, now we've gargled and spit. I say these are “ Not pleasant, but necessary,” not necessarily something nice but something I have  to do. After I use the mouthwash, “Then I get out,” or take out, the floss . “Floss” (floss) is a piece of string that you put in between your teeth to clean;  we call that floss. And there's a verb, “to floss,” which means to use that little pi ece of string. “When I’m done flossing,” when I have finished flos sing, “I pull out,” or take out, “the toothbrush and the toothpaste.” The toothbrush  is what you use to clean your teeth; the toothpaste is like the soap that yo u use to clean your teeth. But, we do not call it tooth soap. We call it toothpaste . It comes in a container that we call a “tube,” and the tube (tube) is where the too thpaste is, and you usually squeeze the tube (squeeze) to get the toothpaste ou t of the tube. So, I put some toothpaste on my toothbrush and then  I brush. We use that verb, “to brush,” to mean to clean my teeth. But, we don' t say, “I'm going to clean my teeth.” Usually we say, “I'm going to brush my teet h.” That same verb, “to brush,” can also be used with your hair, when you are tryin g to put your hair in a certain place, a certain position. I don't brush my hair, of course, because I don't have any hair, but I used to, when I was younger, brush my hair. I finished brushing my teeth, so now I'm going to t ake a shower. There's a difference between taking a shower, where the water  comes from the top of the wall and goes over you, and a bath, which means to fill your bathtub with water

and get in. Most American homes have the tub and the shower in one place. Some homes have a separate shower and a separate tu b. In the story, I say that “I pull the shower curtain  aside.” The “curtain” (curtain) is what you use to keep the water in the shower from g oing onto the floor. It prevents the water from leaving the shower area. We  use that word, “curtain,” also for the things that you can put over your wind ow in your house or apartment, so nobody can see inside; that's also called a curt ain. Well, “I pull the shower curtain aside,” meaning I put it to one side, the left side or the right side. I “step into the tub, and I pull the curtain back,” I put it back in its original position. “I turn on both the hot and the cold water.” “To turn on” means that I turn the faucet on so that the water comes o ut. Remember, the faucet is where water comes out for a sink; it's also where the water comes out for a tub or a shower. Actually, for the shower, the top of the shower, we don't normally call that a faucet; we call that a showerhead (head). So , the showerhead is where the water comes out when you're taking a shower. And, i f you are drawing a bath, meaning if you are putting water into your tub to t ake a bath—to draw a bath— then you use the faucet. The water comes out of the  faucet spout (spout). That's the part of the faucet where the water actually com es out of. I step into the shower, I turn on “the hot and cold  water, looking for the perfect temperature,” not too hot, not too cold. “I lather up with soap.” “To lather” (lather) or to “lather up” means to take soap and put it on your skin and then put water on it, and you rub the soap and the water together unt il you make little bubbles,  until the soap and water covers your skin. That is to lat her or to lather up. Well, “I lather up with” some “soap,” and then I “p ut some shampoo in my hair.” “Shampoo” (shampoo) is the soap for your head, for your hair, if you have hair. So, you take this special soap, usually it is a liq uid soap, and you put it on your hair and that is called shampoo. You can also lathe r up your shampoo. You take your hands and you move them back and forth quickly , and that would lather up your shampoo. Well, after you do that, then you have to get rid of the soap and the shampoo, and you do that by rinsing. “To rinse” (rinse) mean s to take water and get rid of the soap and the shampoo that are on your body. Aft er you do that, then you have to dry your body off. “To dry off” means the s ame as to dry, but we use that expression, “to dry off,” to mean to dry, in this c ase, your body with a towel. Now, it is time for me to shave. “To shave” (shave)  means to remove hair, usually from your face. If you are a man and you don't shav e, you will grow a beard and

a mustache; you will have hair on your face. Well, I don't like beards and mustaches, so I shave - I use something to get rid of the hair. The thing I use to get rid of the hair is the “razo r” (razor). A razor is like a knife. It has a blade (blade) and the blade is the thing that  actually cuts the hair, that removes the hair. So, you have a razor that you use  to shave the whiskers from your face. A “whisker” (whisker) is the name we giv e the hair on your face, at least for a man, we call those whiskers. So, you ca n have an electric razor, like I used to have, or you can have a hand razor. A hand razor is one that is not electric that you just take and you shave by moving  the razor back and forth on your face. Before I shave, I have to “lather up with shaving c ream.” We already know that word “lather up” – it means to mix the soap with wa ter and make bubbles so that it spreads across your skin. “Shaving cream” (cream ) is the special kind of soap or special kind of liquid material that you put on your face to make it easier for you to shave, so you don't cut yourself or hurt you rself when you are shaving. “I rinse the razor” after I am done shaving, and I “throw the disposable blades in the trash.” The blades are the things that go on to p of the razor that cut the whiskers, or remove the whiskers. “Disposable” (dis posable) comes from the verb “to dispose” (dispose), which means to throw a way, to put in the trash, to put in the garbage. That is disposable. If somethin g is disposable, you use it once or twice and then you throw it away. Well, the se are disposable blades. Now it's seven o'clock when I finish showering and shaving, and I am “on to breakfast,” meaning now I am going to have my break fast. Let's listen to the story again, this time at a nat ive rate of speech. [Start of story] I go into my bathroom sometime around 6:45 a.m. My sink and medicine cabinet are on the left when you enter my bathroom. The toi let is next to that, with the tub in front. Anyway, I turn on the lights, and try to find the mouthwash in the medicine cabinet. I pour a small amount into a cup,  swish it around for 30 seconds, gargle, and spit. Not pleasant, but necess ary. Then I get out the floss. When I’m done flossing, I pull out the toothbrush a nd the toothpaste. I brush and then it’s off to the shower. I pull the shower curtain aside, step into the tub,  and pull the curtain back. I turn on both the hot and the cold water, looking for the  perfect temperature. I lather up

with soap, put some shampoo in my hair, then rinse and dry off. Now it’s shaving time. I used to own an electric razor, but I found it didn’t shave close enough. So now I’m back to the old hand razor. I lather up wit h shaving cream, and I start to shave. I rinse the razor and throw the disposable b lades in the trash. It’s about 7:00 AM, and I’m on to breakfast. [End of story] Her scripts are always pleasant. I speak, of course , of our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you, Lucy!

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan,thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

______



