# Bank and Market

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 37: The Bank and The Market

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 37. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

In this episode, we're going to see Lucy as she run s errands at the bank and at the market. Let's get started.

[Start of story]

I left at work at exactly five o’clock because I wa nted to make it to the bank before it closed at 5:30.  Fortunately, it’s on the  way to the bus stop.  I get to the bank and I stand in line.  I fill out a deposit env elope and sign the back of my paycheck while I wait my turn.  When I get to the f ront of the line, I hand the teller the envelope and I ask her if she could tell how mu ch I had in my account.  She told me my balance and handed me my receipt.

I ride the bus and the subway home.  I realize that  I need a few things at the market and stop at one on the way there.  I pick up  a cart as soon as I walk in and go to the produce department to load up on frui t, some apples and bananas. I look around to see what kind of cooked foods they  have.  I’m feeling lazy and I don’t want to cook tonight.  I pick up a sandwich a nd I head for the checkout stands.  I get into the shortest line and the cashi er rings me up.  She gives me my change and the bagger hands me my bags.  I walk the two blocks to my apartment and I’m ready for a relaxing evening at h ome.

[End of story]

The title of this episode is "The Bank and The Mark et."

Lucy says she left "work at exactly five o’clock," we might also say precisely at five o'clock - not 5:01, not 4:59, but five o'clock .  Another way of expressing that is five o'clock on the dot, "dot."  On the dot mean s the same as exactly at that time.

So, Lucy leaves her work at "five o'clock because,"  she says, she wants "to make it to the bank before it closes at 5:30."  To make it, here, means to arrive at the

ESL Podcast 37 - The Bank and The Market

bank.  "I want to make it on time" - I want to be t here on time.  She wants "to make it to the bank before it closes."  The bank wh ere you keep your money, and you are able to get money from the bank.

"Fortunately," Lucy says, the bank is "on the way t o the bus stop."  On the way means it is between her work and the bus stop - it is convenient for her.  When we say something is on the way, we mean that it is between where you are now and where you are going.

Lucy says she gets "to the bank" and stands "in lin e."  To stand in line means to wait in a line until it is your turn - until it is your time to talk to the person at the bank.  So, Lucy is standing in line or waiting in l ine.  I remember when I was young, I come from a big family and it was so big y ou had to stand in line to get food every day, and if you were last in line, you m ay not eat that day.  So, you have to be careful when you come from a big family!

Lucy says that she filled "out a deposit envelope" and signed "the back of" her "paycheck."  To fill out means to complete.  A depo sit envelope, "deposit," is an envelope that you use to put money into your accoun t.  It is also a verb, to deposit, which means to put something into somethin g else; usually we are talking about money.  The opposite of deposit would  be withdrawal.  A withdrawal, "withdrawal," is when you take money ou t of your bank, and the verb is to withdraw.  We sometimes use that verb, to wit hdraw, also when, for example, a political candidate decides that they ar e not going to try to win an election.  They can withdraw from the election - th ey can leave the election.

Lucy signs "the back of" her "paycheck."  A paychec k, "paycheck," is a check that your company gives you that's your money that you g et for working at the company.  Paychecks are not as common as they were even five or ten years ago in the US.  Most companies don't give you a phy sical paycheck - a piece of paper.  Instead, they put the money electronically into your bank account.  They make what we would call an electronic funds transfe r.  Electronic funds, "funds," transfer.  Funds is just another word for money, an d to transfer means to move something from one place to another.

Lucy is waiting her turn in line.  Her turn, "turn, " as we mentioned before, is her opportunity when she can talk to someone.  Someone may say to you, "Wait your turn," they mean they are talking to someone else a nd they will talk to you after they finish talking to the other people.

ESL Podcast 37 - The Bank and The Market

When Lucy gets "to the front of the line" - to the beginning of the line - she hands "the teller" her "envelope."  To hand, "hand," mean s to give something to someone with your hand.  The teller, "teller," is t he name of the person who works at the bank who takes your money and gives yo u money from your bank account.  We call that person the teller.

Lucy gives the teller her envelope and asks if the teller could tell her how much money she had in her account.  An account, "account ," is the money that you keep with the bank, in this case.  An account can a lso be a relationship or an agreement you have with another company.  Sometimes  in business, we talk about salespeople having different accounts.  That' s the same as different clients or different people that they sell things to - they  have a relationship with them.

In this case, Lucy finds out her balance and gets h er receipt.  The teller told Lucy her balance, "balance."  Your balance is how much m oney you have in your bank account.  To hand her, we already know, means to gi ve her her receipt.  Receipt, "receipt," is a piece of paper that says that I am giving you this much money or this is how much money you put into your account.  It's so that you can show or prove, if necessary, that you put the money into yo ur account.

Lucy decides to take "the bus and the subway home."   She realizes that she needs to get "a few things" - some things - "at the  market."  The market, "market," is another word for a store, usually a st ore that sells food.  We would also call that a grocery store.  Lucy stops at the grocery store - she goes to the grocery store - on her way home.  The store is betw een her subway station and her apartment.

She picks up, or gets, a cart, "cart."  A cart is l ike a small basket or box that you put your food into when you are shopping at the sup ermarket or at the market. She walks in and goes "to the produce department."  Produce, "produce," is the word we use in, a supermarket or a grocery store, t o refer to the fruits and vegetables; we call that the produce.  A department  is just a part of a store.  So, you would have in a big supermarket a produce depar tment, maybe a bakery, meat department, a fish department perhaps.  These are different parts of the store.

Lucy goes "to the produce department to load up on fruit."  To load up, "load," up (two words) means to get a lot of.  "I'm going to l oad up on fruit" - I'm going to get a lot of fruit.  She gets "some apples and bananas. "  She looks "around to see what kind of cooked foods" the market has.  Cooked,  "cooked," food is food that is already prepared.  In American markets, many of them sell food that is already

ESL Podcast 37 - The Bank and The Market

ready to eat.  You can just take it home and eat it ; the food is already cooked. Could be chicken; it could be other meat; it could be soup.  These are all things you can buy in many big markets - many supermarkets .

Lucy says that today she is "feeling lazy."  She do esn't want to work very hard, just like me!  She's "feeling lazy" and she does no t "want to cook tonight." Instead, she picks up, or gets, "a sandwich" and he ads "for the checkout stands." So, she's going to buy a sandwich, and after she ge ts it, she heads for, or she goes toward, "the checkout stands."  The checkout s tands are places where you pay for the food that you want to buy.  The verb to  checkout, "checkout," means to buy something at a store.  Usually, when you go get what you want, and then you go to one place to pay for it.  A stand is just  another word for a place to pay for something or a place that sells something.

Lucy gets "into the shortest line and the cashier r ings up" her sale - she rings her up.  Of course, you want to get in the shortest lin e, but normally, most people are in the longest line.  That's why it is the longest line, because there are more people in it.  Think about that one!

Lucy is lucky and she gets in "the shortest line an d the cashier," "cashier," rings her up.  A cashier is the person that takes your mo ney - that takes your cash, or your credit card, or a check.  To ring, "ring," som eone up means to take their money.  When you are at a store and someone wants t o buy something, the person figures out or calculates how much money you  need to give them and they take your money.  That is ringing you up.

Lucy gets her change from the cashier.  Her change,  "change," is the money back that you get when you give a cashier cash.  So , if you buy something for 15 dollars, and you give the cashier 20 dollars, your change is five dollars.  You see, I studied math when I was in school!

Lucy says that her bagger handed her her bags.  A b agger, "bagger," is a person in a grocery store or a supermarket that puts the f ood into a bag.  In most grocery stores, at least in California, they have baggers t o help you.  In some stores, they don't, however.  You have to put your own food into  a bag.

Lucy walks "two blocks to" her "apartment," and say s she is "ready for a relaxing evening at home."

Now let's relax and listen to the story at a normal  speed.

ESL Podcast 37 - The Bank and The Market

 [Start of story]

I left at work at exactly five o’clock because I wa nted to make it to the bank before it closed at 5:30.  Fortunately, it’s on the  way to the bus stop.  I get to the bank and I stand in line.  I fill out a deposit env elope and sign the back of my paycheck while I wait my turn.  When I get to the f ront of the line, I hand the teller the envelope and I ask her if she could tell how mu ch I had in my account.  She told me my balance and handed me my receipt.

I ride the bus and the subway home.  I realize that  I need a few things at the market and stop at one on the way there.  I pick up  a cart as soon as I walk in and go to the produce department to load up on frui t, some apples and bananas. I look around to see what kind of cooked foods they  have.  I’m feeling lazy and I don’t want to cook tonight.  I pick up a sandwich a nd I head for the checkout stands.  I get into the shortest line and the cashi er rings me up.  She gives me my change and the bagger hands me my bags.  I walk the two blocks to my apartment and I’m ready for a relaxing evening at h ome.

[End of story]

Thanks to our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse,  for all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, Cali fornia, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcas t.

This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com.



