# Dinner and Making Dessert

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 38: Dinner and Making Dessert 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 38. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

In this episode, we're going to see Lucy eat dinner  and make cookies for dessert. Let's get started. 

[Start of story] 

When I get home, I change into my casual clothes an d head for the kitchen.  I grab my sandwich, a napkin, and sit down at the din ing room table to eat.  For my birthday last year, my brother gave me some plac e mats that have maps of the United States on them.  I have always been bad at geography so he thought he would be funny and give me something to study wh ile I ate.  Of course, I haven’t learned a thing! 

I am still hungry after the sandwich and want some dessert.  I preheat the oven and then take a package of ready-made cookies out o f the fridge that just needed to be baked.  I get out a cookie sheet and put some  aluminum foil on it.  I always do this when I bake because this way, I don’t have to do any dishes afterwards.  I could just throw away the foil.  Then, I shape the dough into circles, put them on the cookie sheet, and put the pan into the oven.   

After 15 minutes, I put on my oven mitts and take t he pan out.  The cookies smell great, but first, I need to let them cool.  After 3 0 minutes, I put three of them on a plate and the rest of them in a Tupperware containe r.  I’ll take those to work tomorrow.  That should make the day go by a little faster. 

[End of story] 

So, we get to eat in this episode, and that's good because I am hungry! 

When Lucy gets home - when she arrives home - she c hanges into her "casual clothes."  To change, "change," into is a verb that  means to take your clothes off that you have on you right now, and put on differen t clothes.  Someone may say,  

ESL Podcast 38 - Dinner and Making Dessert 

"I need to go change," they mean I need to change m y clothing, or to change into different clothing. 

Lucy changes into her "casual clothes" and heads fo r, or goes toward, "the kitchen."  She grabs her sandwich, meaning she pick s it up with her hand; she also grabs a napkin.  A napkin, "napkin," is a smal l towel that you use to wipe your face when you are eating, and to put on the to p of your legs, what we would call your lap, "lap," so that if any food falls dow n, it doesn't get your clothes dirty. Of course, you can eat very carefully to prevent th at from happening as well. But, if you don't eat carefully, then a napkin is a  good idea. 

Lucy sits down at her "dining room table to eat."  The dining room, "dining," room (two words) is the place in your house where you ea t.  To dine, "dine," is to eat. 

Lucy says for her "birthday last year," her "brothe r gave" her "some place mats that have maps of the United States on them."  A pl ace mat, "place mat," is a piece of plastic or paper, it could also be a piece  of cloth - material - that you put underneath your plate - each plate on the table so that the table does not get dirty.  These place mats "have maps of the United S tates on them."  Lucy says that she has "always been bad at geography."  To be  bad, "bad," at something means that you are not very good at it.  You could say, "I'm very bad at tennis," that means I don't play tennis very well.  Or, "I'm  very bad at dating.  Whenever I meet a girl, she hates me after the first date," th at's the story of my life! 

Well, Lucy is not bad at dating, I don't think; she  is "bad at geography." Geography, "geography," is the study of where thing s are - the location of things. It's more than that, but that's what she means here .  So, Lucy's "bad at geography," and because of that, her brother "thoug ht he would be funny" to give her "something to study while" she eats.  "He thoug ht he would be funny," meaning he was trying to make a joke - trying to be  funny.  "Of course," Lucy says, "I haven't learned a thing," meaning I haven' t learned anything or I have learned nothing.  All of those mean the same - "I h aven't learned a thing." 

Lucy says that she's "still hungry after" eating he r sandwich and wants "some dessert."  Dessert, "dessert," is usually something  sweet with sugar, for example, that you eat at the end of your meal.  It's what we  would call your last course. After your appetizer and an entree, you can have de ssert.  It's my favorite part of the meal. 

Lucy preheats her oven and then takes out "a packag e of ready-made cookies." To preheat, "preheat," means to heat, in this case,  the oven to get it ready to  

ESL Podcast 38 - Dinner and Making Dessert 

cook something.  An oven, "oven," is a place where you put food into it and you close the door, we would call the oven door, so tha t the food inside will cook. Usually, we use the verb bake, "bake," when we are using an oven.  So, we cook the food, or we bake the food in the oven. 

Lucy is going to bake a package of cookies - "of re ady-made cookies."  A package is just the container - the bag or the box where the cookies are kept. When Lucy says the cookies are ready-made, "ready-m ade," she means that she doesn't have to prepare them by herself.  She doesn 't have to get out eggs and water and flour, and make the cookies herself.  Ins tead, she just has to take the cookie out of the package and put it on the pan and  put it in the oven and it will cook.   

If you make something by taking all of the, what we  would call, ingredients or the things that you use to cook your food, we would say  you were cooking from scratch, "scratch."  To cook something from scratch  means that you make the entire thing yourself. 

Well, Lucy is not making cookies from scratch; she' s using ready-made cookies, which she takes out of her "fridge that just need t o be baked, that is they just need to be put into the oven and they will cook.  S he puts the cookies on a cookie sheet.  A cookie sheet, "sheet," is a long, flat pan that you can use to put things on when you put them in the oven.  We use th at term, cookie sheet, even when we are not using it to bake cookies.  You can put chicken on a cookie sheet and put it in your oven; we still call it your cook ie sheet. 

Lucy puts some aluminum foil on her cookie sheet.  Aluminum, "aluminum," is a kind of metal.  Foil, "foil," is a metal sheet - a very thin sheet of aluminum. Sometimes people just say foil instead of aluminum foil; they mean the same thing.  It's like a sheet of paper but it is made o f metal, and you can use it to wrap things in - to put things in.  Here, Lucy is using it to keep the cookie sheet clean - to protect the cookie sheet.  She says she does thi s because after she finishes baking her cookies, she doesn't have to wash any di shes or "to do any dishes." So, the aluminum foil protects the sheet, and so th e cookie sheet doesn't get dirty - the pan doesn't get dirty.  That's why she uses t he aluminum foil; she doesn't have to wash, or do, any dishes.  She just throws t he foil away. 

After she puts the foil on the cookie sheet, she sh apes "the dough into circles." The dough, "dough," is a thick material - a thick s ubstance that we use to make cookies.  We also use that word, dough, when we are  talking about pancakes or waffles, types of food that you would eat in the mo rning.  Whenever you have  

ESL Podcast 38 - Dinner and Making Dessert 

something that you bake, such as bread or cookies, it begins with cookie dough. That's the cookie before it is baked. 

Lucy says she shapes the dough.  To shape, "shape,"  means to change something - to take something and to make it look d ifferent.  Here, Lucy is shaping "the dough into circles" - into round cooki es.  She puts "them on the cookie sheet," and then she puts "the pan" - the co okie sheet in "the oven." 

"After about 15 minutes," Lucy puts on her "oven mi tts" and takes "the pan out." An oven mitt, "mitt," is like a glove.  It is a ver y thick piece of material, sometimes like a thick towel that you can use to pick up some thing that is very hot.  You don't want to burn your hands, so you put on oven m itts.   

We also use that word, mitts, when talking about gl oves that you wear that don't have a separate space for each finger.  A glove, te chnically, is something you put over your hand, and each finger you can move separa tely.  With a mitt, you put your hand in and you can move your thumb, but the f our fingers are all together inside the mitt.  Well, this is a oven mitt, used t o take hot things out of the oven. 

Lucy says that "The cookies smell great," meaning t hey smell very good, "but first," she needs "to let them cool."  To cool, "co ol," is a verb, which means to lower the temperature.  Something is hot needs to c ool before you eat it. 

"After 30 minutes," Lucy puts three cookies "on a p late" and puts "the rest of them" - the remaining cookies - "in a Tupperware co ntainer."  Tupperware, "Tupperware," is a company that makes small plastic  boxes - small plastic containers that you can put food into.  Tupperware is a name of a company, so you have to use a capital T, "Tupperware."  Even th ough you buy a plastic container that is not made by this company, people still call them Tupperware containers, or sometimes just Tupperware.  If someo ne says, "I need to buy some new Tupperware," they mean they need to buy so me new plastic containers for food. 

Lucy says she's going to take her cookies "to work tomorrow.  That should make the day go by a little faster."  When we say the da y will go by, "by," we mean that it will seem like the day is not very long - that t ime is moving very fast.  Just like when you are listening to ESLPod.com courses, the d ay goes by much faster. 

Speaking of faster, now let's listen to the story a t a native rate of speech. 

ESL Podcast 38 - Dinner and Making Dessert 

[Start of story] 

When I get home, I change into my casual clothes an d head for the kitchen.  I grab my sandwich, a napkin, and sit down at the din ing room table to eat.  For my birthday last year, my brother gave me some plac e mats that have maps of the United States on them.  I have always been bad at geography so he thought he would be funny and give me something to study wh ile I ate.  Of course, I haven’t learned a thing! 

I am still hungry after the sandwich and want some dessert.  I preheat the oven and then take a package of ready-made cookies out o f the fridge that just needed to be baked.  I get out a cookie sheet and put some  aluminum foil on it.  I always do this when I bake because this way, I don’t have to do any dishes afterwards.  I could just throw away the foil.  Then, I shape the dough into circles, put them on the cookie sheet, and put the pan into the oven.   

After 15 minutes, I put on my oven mitts and take t he pan out.  The cookies smell great, but first, I need to let them cool.  After 3 0 minutes, I put three of them on a plate and the rest of them in a Tupperware containe r.  I’ll take those to work tomorrow.  That should make the day go by a little faster. 

[End of story] 

Thanks to our fantastic scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse,  for all of her hard work. And thanks to you for listening. From Los Angeles, Cali fornia, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcas t. 

This course has been a production of the Center for  Educational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our websi te at eslpod.com. 

This course was produced by Dr. Jeff McQuillan and Dr. Lucy Tse.  Copyright 2006.

