# Getting Up

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 2: Getting Up

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e number two. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This episode begins a special 10-part series coveri ng basic vocabulary for everyday actions, from getting up in the morning to  going to bed at night and everything in between.  We’ll start with getting up .

Let’s get started!

[Start of story]

The worst part of the day for me is definitely when  I have to get up.  Waking up, that I can handle.  But getting up?  That, I hate.  The covers I have on my bed are heavy, mostly because I have a comforter as wel l as a light blanket.  I sleep with two pillows, which for some reason have differ ent color pillowcases.  Well, at least the sheets match.

I sometimes wake up before the alarm goes off.  I l ike to keep the alarm at a low volume, with some classical music, nothing too jarr ing.  My old roommate used to like the terrible buzzer that you find on most alar m clocks nowadays, which always used to drive me nuts.  As I was saying, I s ometimes wake up before the alarm, usually because of some noise outside the ho use—a car door slamming, an alarm going off, gunfire—well, okay, not gunfire , but man, is my neighborhood noisy!  Of course, when I’m staying in a hotel, it’ s usually easier to just get a wake up call from the hotel than set the alarm.

I’m not really an early riser, so I don’t jump out of bed ready to take on the world. I get up very slowly, usually one foot on the floor  at a time.  Every once in awhile I’ll oversleep, but not too often.  I really love t he weekends, when I can sleep in.

[End of story]

Our story begins by me describing how much I do not  like getting up.  To get up means to get out of your bed, to stand up after you  have been lying down on a bed.  I say that, “The worst part of my day is when  I have to get up.  Waking up, that I can handle.”  To wake up “wake up” (two word s) means that you are

sleeping and you stop sleeping and now you are awak e.  The verb is to wake up. So, you can wake up while you are in bed, and then,  you get up—you stand up after lying down.

I said that “waking up” is something “I can handle. ”  To handle (handle) here means to be able to control—something that I can ma nage—something that I can accept; it's not a problem.  Another expression wou ld be something I can deal with.  To deal “deal” with something is the same, i n this case, as to be able to handle something.

I say that “getting up” is something that “I hate.”   The covers I have on my bed are heavy.”  The covers (covers) are the things tha t you put over you to keep you warm.  Usually, the covers include a blanket, somet imes a comforter and usually, what we would call the top sheet or flat sheet.  A comforter “comforter” is a very thick blanket, a very heavy blanket.  A blanket (bl anket) is something that you put over you when you are sleeping to keep you warm.

Blanket is a general term; a comforter is a kind of  blanket, a heavy blanket.  The opposite of a comforter would be a light blanket.  A light (light) blanket would be the opposite, and that is a blanket that will keep you warm, but if it gets very cold, it might not keep you warm, it might not be suffici ent.

So, we have a comforter and we have a light blanket .  Usually, there is a top sheet (sheet) that you put over you in between your  body and the blankets, and this top sheet is sometimes called a flat sheet.  T he sheet that goes on the bed itself, that goes onto the corners of the bed, that 's called a fitted sheet, a fitted (fitted) sheet.  So, we have a fitted sheet on the bed that you sleep on top of, then we have a top sheet and then a blanket, someti mes, if it's very cold, a comforter as well.

I say in the story that “I sleep with two pillows.”   A pillow (pillow) is what you put your head on when you sleep.  Now, “for some reason ,” I say I “have different colored pillowcases.”  This is true, actually; I ha ve a black pillowcase and a blue pillowcase for my two pillows.  I think the reason is I am too lazy to go and buy a new pillowcase.

Well, the pillowcase “pillowcase” (one word) is the  thing that you put over the pillow so the pillow doesn't get dirty; we call tha t the pillowcase.  I say, “Well, at least the sheets match.”  We already know what a sh eet is.  When we say the sheets match (match), we mean that they are the sam e color or two colors that

look good together.  We use that verb, to match, wh en we are talking about clothing as well, or anything where you have two co lors.

“I sometimes wake up before the alarm goes off.”  W hen we say the alarm “goes off,” we mean that the alarm starts to make a sound .  Your alarm (alarm) is a machine that makes noise at a certain time; usually  it has a clock.  Well, I sometimes wake up before my alarm makes noise, my a larm goes off.  “I like to keep the alarm at a low volume,” meaning not very l oud – at a low volume – “with some classical music, nothing too jarring.”  When w e say a sound is jarring (jarring), we mean that it is loud and it causes yo u to jump or to be surprised.  It's something that is not very nice, not very pleasant.   A jarring noise would be one that bothers you, perhaps because it is very loud o r it is not a very nice sound. So, I don't want my alarm to have a jarring noise; instead, I play classical music.

Now, “My old roommate”—the person I used to share a n apartment with— “used to like the terrible buzzer you find on most alarm clocks.”  This, again, is true.  I had a roommate that had a very loud and bad soundin g buzzer; it was a terrible buzzer.  The buzzer (buzzer) is when the alarm cloc k doesn't play music, but it just plays a sound.  Sometimes it is like a bell ri nging; that's the buzzer.  Well, this buzzer always used to drive me nuts.  “To driv e someone nuts” (nuts) means to drive them crazy, to make them crazy, to make th em go crazy.

I continue the story by saying, “As I was saying.”  We use that expression, “as I was saying,” when we are talking about one thing th en we start talking about a second thing, and now we want to go back and talk a bout the first thing again. So, when you interrupt yourself when you are talkin g, and then you change the topic, change what you are talking about, and then want to go back to your original topic, you say, “As I was saying.”

“As I was saying, I sometimes wake up before the al arm, usually because of some noise outside the house.”  When we say there i s some noise, some sound, outside the house or outside of the house - you can  say either one - we mean that someone is making a noise that is very loud.  Some of those noises are “a car door slamming.”  The verb “to slam” (slam) mean s that you close the door usually very quickly and you make a loud noise.  So meone closes their car door very fast, it will make a noise. We call that “slam ming the door.”

My mother always used to tell me when I was young, “Don't slam the doors,” meaning when I come in and close the door, I should  close it slowly and quietly. Of course, I was not a good boy so I would sometime s slam the door.

As I was saying, an alarm goes off, that's another noise that can wake you up outside and this would be a car alarm.  Here in Los  Angeles, everyone has a car alarm, and sometimes those alarms go off at night.  Another noise is gunfire; “gun (gun) fire (fire).”  Gunfire is when someone s hoots a gun and it makes a noise.  This is, again, Los Angeles, so we sometime s have gunfire - but of course, I'm joking.  I say, “Well, okay, not gunfir e,” meaning I'm just kidding, that isn't actually true, although, it is  true sometimes.

I then say, “Man, is my neighborhood noisy!”  That expression, “man,” is just a way of expressing your emotion when you are saying something that you really mean or really want to emphasize.  “Man, is my neig hborhood noisy!” - that means my neighborhood is very noisy.

“Of course, when I'm staying at a hotel, it’s usual ly easier to just get a wake up call from the hotel.”  A “wake up call” (call) is w hen the hotel calls you on the phone to wake you up so you don't have to set your own alarm.  “To set” (set) an alarm means to turn it on and to put a certain time  that you want to get up.  Well, sometimes people have problems with their alarm clo cks and so, if they are in a hotel, they can ask the hotel to wake them up with a wake up call.

At the end of the story I say, “I’m not really an e arly riser.”  An “early (early) riser (riser)” means someone who wakes up and gets up ver y early in the morning. You could be an early riser; you could be a late ri ser.  The word “riser” comes from the verb “to rise (rise)” which, in this case,  means to get up.  Well, “I'm not really an early riser,” I say, “so I don’t jump out  of bed.”  “To jump out of bed” means to get out of bed very quickly.  “I don’t jum p out of bed ready to take on the world.”  “To take on the world,” means I'm read y for the day.  It's an expression we use to say that I am ready to go out into the world and do my best. “I'm not an early riser, I don't jump out of bed re ady to take on the world.” Instead, “I get up very slowly, usually one foot on  the floor at a time.”  So first, I get up and I put one foot on the floor, and then an other foot on the floor, and then I stand up.

“Every once in awhile,” I say, “I’ll oversleep.”  “ To oversleep” (oversleep) – one word – means that you sleep later than you should.  For example, you are wanting to get up at seven o'clock in the morning a nd you sleep until 7:30.  You don't realize that you are sleeping too late; we ca ll that “oversleeping.”  To oversleep means you sleep longer than you wanted to .

At the end of the story I say, “I really love the w eekends” – Fridays and Saturdays – “when I can sleep in.”  “To sleep in” m eans that you don't get up at

your normal time; you sleep longer than you normall y do.  So, if you normally get up at seven, on Saturday or Sunday if you don't wor k, you may sleep in until nine a.m.

Now let's listen to the story, this time at a nativ e rate of speech.

[Start of story]

The worst part of the day for me is definitely when  I have to get up.  Waking up, that I can handle.  But getting up?  That, I hate.  The covers I have on my bed are heavy, mostly because I have a comforter as wel l as a light blanket.  I sleep with two pillows, which for some reason have differ ent color pillowcases.  Well, at least the sheets match.

I sometimes wake up before the alarm goes off.  I l ike to keep the alarm at a low volume, with some classical music, nothing too jarr ing.  My old roommate used to like the terrible buzzer that you find on most alar m clocks nowadays, which always used to drive me nuts.  As I was saying, I s ometimes wake up before the alarm, usually because of some noise outside the ho use—a car door slamming, an alarm going off, gunfire—well, okay, not gunfire , but man, is my neighborhood noisy!  Of course, when I’m staying in a hotel, it’ s usually easier to just get a wake up call from the hotel than to set the alarm.

I’m not really an early riser, so I don’t jump out of bed ready to take on the world. I get up very slowly, usually one foot on the floor  at a time.  Every once in awhile I’ll oversleep, but not too often.  I really love t he weekends, when I can sleep in.

[End of story]

Her scripts are never jarring, but always as wonder ful as classical music.  I speak, of course, of our scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse . Thank you, Lucy!

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan, t hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

______



