# Training a New Employee

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast Num ber 162, “Training a New Employee.” You are listening to English as a Second Language P odcast Episode 162. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from t he Center for Educational Development in the beautiful Los Angeles, Californi a.

This podcast is going to be about someone training a new worker, or a new employee. Let’s go!

[start of dialogue]

Even though, I’ve only been on the job for six mont hs, my manager asked me to train the new hire. She was starting today and when  she arrived, we got down to business.

Akira: So, the first thing I’ll do is to give you a  run down of the duties of the job. Your main responsibilities will be to ensure that t he reports are finished each week, make any adjustments that need to be made, an d distribute them to each department. Is that clear so far?

Frances: Sure. That seems pretty straightforward. W ho do I report to?

Akira: Your immediate supervisor is Ida Funck. We a ll work under her in this department. Okay, here’s the employee manual. Make sure you read it.

Frances: Great. Thanks. Now, when do I get a break?

Akira: A break? You’ve only been here a half an hou r.

Frances: Has it been that long? I need some coffee.

Needless to say, it was a very, very long day.

[end of dialogue]

Our dialogue today is about a worker, an employee, and an employee of course is just someone who works for someone else. One of the employees in this company is training a new employee, and the story b egins by him saying that, he

has only been on the job for six months. “Even thou gh, I’ve only been on the job for six months,” To be “on the job” means to be wor king at a particular place, or for a particular company. “How long have you been o n the job?” means how long have you worked for this company. And the person he re is saying, “Even though I’ve only been on the job for six months,” which wo uld be the same as “Despite the fact that I have only been on the job, my manag er asked me to train a new hire.” So in the first part of the sentence, he’s s aying, “Well I’ve only been here for a short time, for six months, but my boss still  wants me to do training, even though I don’t have very much experience myself.” T o “train” someone (train) of course means to tell them what to do, to show them how they are to do their job. And so, when you get a new job, you often go throug h a week or two, or maybe a month or two of training where someone gives you in struction, teaches you how to do a specific job.

A hire (hire) is an employee, a person who was hire d by the company. So, in the story here when we hear about the “new hire,” we me an the new person who is now working for the company, the new person who jus t got a job at the company. Well, this person was starting today and when she a rrived, the narrator, Akira, says, “We got down to business.” To “get down to bu siness”  - that expression means to start working, to begin doing what you are  supposed to do. We can use this expression in business, but we can also use it  in other places, such as in school. A teacher might say to her students, “You t wo, get down to business! Let’s start working.” “Let’s get down to business” means start doing what you’re supposed to do. This is something I have a great di fficulty doing, especially on Monday morning. It’s hard to get down to business. I want to go on the Internet. I want to look at the news. Well, you know, that’s wh at you’re doing right now, some of you, by listening to ESL Podcast.

Well, Akira says the first thing that he’s going to  give this new employee is a run- down of the duties of the job. Basically what he is  saying here is that he’s going to explain to the new employee what that person, wh at that worker, has to do in her job. To give someone a “run down” - and that’s two words (run down) -  to give someone a run down of something, or a run down  on something, means to explain to them what happened, to give them informa tion that they need to know. For example: Yesterday I went to a meeting that you  were not able to go to. Let me give you a run down of the meeting. I’m going to  tell you what happened at that meeting. The duties (duties) of a job are what  you have to do. They’re your responsibilities, the things, or the tasks that you  have to do for a job.

So Akira says, “Well let me tell you what you have to do for this new job.” Remember he’s training in a new employee. He says, “Your main responsibilities,” the main duties. When we say mai n here (main), we mean the

most important, the principal responsibilities, the  responsibilities that are most important. “Your main responsibilities” he says, “w ill be to ensure that the reports are finished each week.” “To ensure” (ensure) means  to make sure, to verify, to confirm, to be responsible for something. “I need t o ensure that I have a car tomorrow morning to take my boss to the airport” me ans I have to take care of that. It’s my responsibility.

There’s another word that sounds the same, almost t he same as ensure, and that’s insure (insure). In fact, they normally woul d be pronounced the same, but they’re spelled differently and they mean different  things. To “insure” (insure) means to get insurance for something. Usually, you pay a company money and the company promises that, if something bad happens , they will pay you money to fix it. For example, on your car, you can have c ar insurance. So if you have an accident -  you’re sleeping and you run into a tree  - if you have car insurance, the insurance company will pay you to fix the car. That ’s the verb “to insure” (insure). To “ensure” (ensure) means to make sure, to take re sponsibility for something. Well, one of the responsibilities is to ensure that  the reports are finished each week. Another one is to make any adjustments that n eed to be made. An adjustment, (adjustment) an adjustment is a change,   - usually, when you have to correct something or fix something. I need to make some adjustments in the amount of money that I said we were going to make t his year. I have to make some changes in that. Finally, Akira says that the new employee has to di stribute these reports to each department, and to “distribute” (distribute) means to give to people, to give to (usually) different people. We use that verb “to di stribute” when we are talking about a piece of information, a report, a letter th at goes to several different people.

Well Frances, the new employee, says that everythin g that Akira is saying seems pretty straight-forward. To be “straight-forward” ( straight-forward), all one word, straight-forward - to be straight-forward means to be clear, to be simple, to be not complicated. Usually we use this word when we are t alking about a set of plans or directions or instructions, things that you have  to do, usually procedures or steps that you have to take - can be straight-forwa rd. For example: The directions for getting from my house to Santa Monic a, California, are very straight-forward. You drive up Centinela Avenue, yo u take a left on Santa Monica Boulevard, you drive one mile and you are in Santa Monica, California, the city here in Los Angeles.

Well, that’s straight-forward. It’s simple, it’s cl ear, it’s plain. Notice that Frances says, “That seems pretty straight-forward,” “pretty ” here means very. Remember, you can say something is pretty, as an adjective me ans, it’s beautiful, but when

you use it as an adverb, it means very. So, that se ems pretty straight-forward. That seems very straight-forward.

Frances says, “Who do I report to?” meaning who do I talk to about what I should do? Who is my boss? Notice she says, “Who do I repo rt to?” Technically, you probably will read in a grammar book that the corre ct way is, “Whom do I report to?” or “To whom do I report?” However, in both con versation and in writing now, in English, many people just say “who” and now “who m.” It’s quite common, probably more common. In fact, if you say, “Whom do  I report to?” some people might think you are trying to impress them, to show  off, to show that you know grammar better than they do. In actual conversation , it’s very common for people just to say “who” even though, the grammatical form , the traditional form, is “whom.”

Well, Akira says that Frances should report to Ida Funck, the name of her immediate supervisor. Well, a supervisor, you proba bly know (supervisor), all one word - a supervisor is a boss, is someone who is in  charge of, or is responsible for, usually a group of people. When you say, your “immediate” supervisor, you mean that it is the person who you talk to, one lev el above where you are. That is, you may have a boss, and your boss has a boss, and your boss’s boss has a boss, and so on and so forth. In a big company, the re are many bosses, and some bosses work for other bosses.

Well, your immediate supervisor is the boss who is one level above you; who is the person that you talk to, who gives you orders. He has, or she may have another boss that is his or her immediate superviso r. Well Akira says that, “We all work under her, the immediate supervisor in this de partment.” “To work under” someone means that we are their employees. They are  our boss, or in this case, she is our boss. I work under Lucy Tse means Lucy T se is my boss. Akira then says, “Okay, here’s the employee manual.” A manual (manual) is a book that gives you instructions on how to do something. You can have a manual for your computer that tells you what you should do, and how  you should do things with your computer. Usually, most people don’t read thos e manuals. I know I don’t, but an “employee manual” is what a company gives to  a worker, to an employee, telling them all the different rules and regulation s of the company. Akira says, “Make sure that you read the manual.” And of course  to “make sure” is the same as to “ensure” (ensure). In other words, you’re res ponsible for this.

Frances says “Great, now when do I get a break?” A break (break) is when you stop working for a short period of time. And Akira says, “A break? You’ve only been here a half an hour.” Notice that that express ion, “a half an hour” (a half an hour), four words, a half an hour. You can also say , “a half hour.” Sometimes

people will say, “a half hour” with no “an” in betw een. Sometimes they’ll say, “A half an hour” -  they mean the same thing.

Frances says, “Has it been that long? I need some c offee.” Of course, Akira is not very happy that this new worker, this new emplo yee, wants to take a break after only a half an hour. And so he says, “Needles s to say, it was a very, very long day.” That expression “Needless (needless) to say,” needless to say means obviously, it was a very long day. I don’t need to tell you that it was a very long day -  “needless to say.” And we use that expressio n when we are going to tell someone something that should be obvious to them, t hat they should already know because it is obvious. It is clear from the si tuation.

Well now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at  a native rate of speech.

[start of dialogue]

Even though, I’ve only been on the job for six mont hs, my manager asked me to train the new hire. She was starting today and when  she arrived, we got down to business.

Akira: So, the first thing I’ll do is to give you a  run down of the duties of the job. Your main responsibilities will be to ensure that t he reports are finished each week, make any adjustments that need to be made, an d distribute them to each department. Is that clear so far?

Frances: Sure. That seems pretty straightforward. W ho do I report to?

Akira: Your immediate supervisor is Ida Funck. We a ll work under her in this department. Okay, here’s the employee manual. Make sure you read it.

Frances: Great. Thanks. Now, when do I get a break?

Akira: A break? You’ve only been here a half an hou r.

Frances: Has it been that long? I need some coffee.

Needless to say, it was a very, very long day. [end of dialogue]

The script for today’s podcast was written by my im mediate supervisor, Dr. Lucy Tse. - the person I work under. Remember to visit o ur website at www.eslpod.com. You can find there a transcript of the dialogue for this podcast,

 and soon, you will be able to get a complete transc ript of our podcast. We will be giving you more information about that soon.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan,thanks for listening. We will see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

