# Writing a Thank You Note

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 114: Writing a Thank You Letter.

You’re listening to English as a Second Language Po dcast episode 114. Welcome back. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, fr om the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Today’s podcast is going to be about writing a Thank you letter. Let’s get started! > Dear Jake,
> I wanted to thank you for all of the help you've gi ven me over the past several weeks. Being laid up with pneumonia really caught m e off-guard, but you went above and beyond in taking care of me. Before I got  sick, we had only known each other as neighbors and only for a short time. That's why it's so amazing that when I called you, you came running. You pulled out  all the stops to help me in every way. You ran my errands, kept me company, and  made sure I had everything I needed. Being on my own in L.A., I'm s o grateful to have a good friend like you. You're truly one in a million.
> Have a wonderful holiday and I'll see you when you get back.
> Kate

Today we listened to a personal thank you letter. A  thank you note that you might write someone who has done you a favor – that is wh o has helped you. It begins with “Dear Jake,.” If it’s an informal note or a le tter, we usually – or email – we usually use a comma. If it’s more formal such as “D ear Mr. Johnson,” and it’s a business letter, we would use a colon (:) – two dot s. But here, as an informal letter, it is a comma.

Well, Kate, the person writing this note, says that  “I wanted to thank you for all the help you’ve given me over the past several week s. Being laid up with pneumonia really caught me off-guard.” The expressi on “to be laid-up” means that you are usually in your bed, you’re sick or ma ybe you broke your leg and you

say, “Yeah, I’m laid-up” – means I can’t get out of  my bed. I need someone to take care of me. In this case, Kate is laid-up with  “pneumonia.” And “pneumonia” which is spelled (pneumonia) is a kind of sickness that you get – often causes you to cough, have problems breathing sometimes, an d can be very serious. In this case, it wasn’t too serious. We’re never very serious here on ESL Podcast, anyway.

And Kate says that this “pneumonia” really “caught her off-guard.” “To catch someone” or “to catch you off-guard” – and “off-gua rd” is hyphenated – (off)- (guard) – “to be caught off guard” – means that you  weren’t expecting it and that usually it’s something that causes you a problem. S o, for example, I was driving today on the freeway here in Los Angeles, and sudde nly, it started to rain and I didn’t have a coat. I was caught off-guard. I was s urprised and was not prepared.

Well, Kate was caught off-guard, but her friend, Ja ke, went “above and beyond” in taking care of me. The expression “above and bey ond” is actually a short form of a longer expression “above and beyond” the call of duty (duty). “Above and beyond the call of duty” or simply, “above and beyo nd” means that you did more than what one would reasonably expect. So, you help ed me more than you had to or more than I could have expected you to. The e xpression “the call of duty” – “duty” (duty) here means your obligation. So, you d id more than what you had to. That word “duty” is also used as a tax on things th at you bring in to another country. So, if you come to the United States and y ou bring, I don’t know, several boxes of cigars – expensive cigars. Well, you proba bly will have to pay a tax when you come here and that’s called a duty. But he re, “duty” is obligation – something you have to do.

Kate says that before she got sick, she and Jake ha d only known each other as neighbors and only for a short time. But it was ama zing, she thinks, that when she called him, he “came running.” When someone – y ou say someone “comes running” they don’t really mean they’re actually ru nning. They mean that you came to my assistance – you came to help me very qu ickly. I saw a woman trying to open a door with her young baby. And I ca me running and opened the door because I’m such a gentleman. Well, that’s wha t happened here – Jake came running.

And Kate says that he “pulled out all the stops” to  help her in every way. The expression “to pull out all the stops” means to hel p someone, do everything you can to help someone. I believe the expression origi nally comes from when you play an organ like in a church. The “stops” are wha t controls the sound – the loudness of the sound in part. So, to pull out all the stops of the organ would be

to make it play as loud as you could. It’s another way of saying to do as much as you can – “to pull out all the stops.”

Well, that’s what Jake did here. He ran errands, ke pt Kate company, and made sure she had everything she needed. “To run errands ” (errands) means to go to the grocery store and buy food, to go to the post o ffice and mail a letter – anything that you – any small thing that you have to do as part of your daily life. You have to get your car washed or you have to get gas for your car – these are all “errands” – things that you have to do, usually  requiring you to leave our house. And the expression we use is to “run errands .” So, in the story, Jake “runs errands” for Kate. He also keeps her company. “To k eep someone company” means that you stay with someone who may be lonely and you talk to them. So, the boy sees the girl sitting by herself and crying . He goes over and he “keeps her company.” Kate says that since she is “on her o wn,” meaning she’s by herself, she doesn’t have probably very many famili es – or I’m sorry, many friends or family with her in Los Angeles. “To be o n your own” just means to be by yourself – to be alone.

Since she’s on her own, she was grateful to have a good friend like you. “To be grateful” (grateful) means that you are thankful, that you appreciate something. I am grateful that the rain stopped before I had to g et out of my car. It’s the same as saying, “I’m thankful for.” So, to be “grateful”  – in this case, she’s grateful to Jake.

She ends – towards the end of the letter, she says,  “You’re truly one in a million.” “You’re” – “you are” – “You’re truly one in a milli on.” “Truly” (truly) here means you are – in truth – It’s absolutely true that you are one in a million. And so, we use that adverb “truly” when we’re trying to emphas ize something. We’re trying to really tell the person that we really believe this.  Well, “you’re truly one in a million” – the idea here is that you’re very rare. That peop le who are so nice and so generous with their time, that’s very unusual. So, the expression “one in a million” means it’s very rare. It doesn’t happen very often.

Well, Kate ends her letter by saying, “Have a wonde rful holiday and I’ll see you when you get back” – probably Jake has left – signe d, Kate. Now, she doesn’t have a closing. You could say, if it were an inform al note, you might say “Yours” (yours) comma, or you might just say something like  “Thanks” comma. Or you might want to say, “Take it easy,” meaning hope eve rything is okay. People have different ways of closing their letters. But here, she just signs it “Kate.”

Now let’s listen to the letter this time at a nativ e rate of speech.

[start of story]

Dear Jake,

I wanted to thank you for all of the help you've gi ven me over the past several weeks. Being laid up with pneumonia really caught m e off-guard, but you went above and beyond in taking care of me. Before I got  sick, we had only known each other as neighbors and only for a short time. That's why it's so amazing that when I called you, you came running. You pulled out  all the stops to help me in every way. You ran my errands, kept me company, and  made sure I had everything I needed. Being on my own in L.A., I'm s o grateful to have a good friend like you. You're truly one in a million.

Have a wonderful holiday and I'll see you when you get back.

Kate

[end of story]

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

ESL Podcast is a production of the Center for Educa tional Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 . No part of this podcast may be sold or redistributed without the expressed writ ten permission of the Center for Educational Development.

