# Last Minute Holiday Shopping

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 111: Last Minute Holiday Shopping.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 111. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan from the Center for Educational Deve lopment in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

On this podcast, we’re going to talk about last min ute holiday shopping. Let’s go! > Every year, I tell myself that I won't procrastinat e in doing my holiday shopping. And, every year, I end up with a shopping list as l ong as your arm and about 24 hours to get it all done. Waiting until the last mi nute means that I have to brave the crowds out doing their last minute shopping.
> First, I have to find a place to park in the parkin g lot, which is always packed. Then, I have to fight off the bargain hunters who a re there for the holiday markdowns. With so many shoppers, the shelves are u sually a mess and a lot of items are out of stock. When I've finally picked ou t what I want to buy, there are usually long lines at the register. Just when I'm a bout to check out, I always remember that I've forgotten one last thing. It nev er fails!
> When I get home with the presents, I have to wrap them. Hopefully, I haven't forgotten to get gift wrap, ribbons and bows, and h oliday cards. By the time I'm finished, I'm exhausted and I feel like Scrooge. Ba  humbug!
> Why do I do this to myself every year? Next year, I 'm starting my holiday shopping in September. Then again, I said that last  year.

Today we are doing some last minute holiday shoppin g. When we say we’re doing something at the “last minute,” we mean we’re  doing it right before it has to be done. We’re waiting until we have no more time l eft. This is, of course, about holiday shopping and that usually is around Christm as or Hanukkah or whatever it is you celebrate. I mentioned that every year, I  tell myself I won’t “procrastinate” in doing my holiday shopping. “To procrastinate” (p rocrastinate) means to wait until the last minute. Another expression we’d say is “to put it off.” “To put

something off” means to say, “Oh, I’ll do it later,  not right now, maybe later” – that’s procrastinating. Students, for example, who wait until the night before a big exam to start studying, are procrastinating.

I say that I “end up with a shopping list as long a s your arm” every year. The expression “to end up with” means that as a result of or because of something. For example, here because I procrastinate, I end up  with a long shopping list. The shopping list, I mentioned, is as long as your arm. And that’s an expression meaning something that’s very, very long. Usually, we use that expression in talking about a list of things or a listing of item s of some sort – basically, a long list. I said that waiting until the last minute mea ns that “I had to brave the crowds out doing their last minute shopping.” Well, we’ve talked about what it means to wait until the last minute. “To brave the crowds” –  “to brave” (brave) – means to have to put up with or tolerate the crowds of peopl e. A “crowd,” of course, is many people. So “to brave the crowds” means that I have to go out with – or go out to a store with many people and I have to be ab le to put up with that – to tolerate it, to not let it bother me.

“Last minute shopping,” of course, is what we’ve be en talking about here, shopping at the last minute. Now, when you go the s tore near the holidays in December, they’re always “packed.” And to be “packe d” (packed) means that they’re full – full of people. The opposite of “pac ked” would be that they were dead – that is, there was no one there.

I said I had “to fight off the bargain hunters who were there for the holiday mark- downs.” “To fight off” literally means that someone  is attacking you, and you have to defend yourself. But, of course, we’re not using  this literally. This is a metaphor – it’s an analogy. You’re not actually fighting peo ple. Well, sometimes, if it’s a lot of difficult people you might be fighting, but normally, “to fight off” here is not to be taken literally. We don’t mean we actually fight  people.

“Bargain hunters” are people who are looking for a bargain. And a “bargain” (bargain) is a low price on something – what we wou ld call a “good deal.” Someone says, “Oh, that’s a bargain” – means that’s  a good price – a low price. A “hunter” is someone, normally, who, for example, hunts animals like deer or whatever animal – geese – but here again, it’s not literally a hunter. It’s someone who is looking for. So, to hunt can also mean in th is context, to look for. A “markdown” (markdown) is when a store reduces or lo wers the price. So, often, during the holiday shopping season there will be lo wer prices at the store and these are called “markdowns.”

Well, I said that with so many shoppers, “the shelv es are usually a mess and a lot of items are out of stock.” The “shelves” are the place where, in a store, they put the things that you want to buy. You can have a  shelf – is the singular – “shelves” (shelves) is the plural. The idea of it b eing a “mess” (mess) means that nothing is in order, that everything is thrown toge ther and it’s not very neat. “To be a mess” is the opposite of to be neat. “Out of s tock” – three words – “out of stock” – means that the store doesn’t have any more  left. It runs out, we would say. “To run out” means that you sell all of the on es you have and you don’t have any more to sell.

I said that I finally “picked out” what I wanted to  buy. “To pick out” means to select, to choose, but there are usually long lines  at the “register.” The “register” – sometimes called the “cash register” – is where y ou go in a store to pay for what you are going to buy. And when you are going to pay for your merchandise, your items, you are going to check-out. “I want to check-out at the register” means I want to pay for my things at the register.

I said that usually, I always forget at least one t hing. And I use the expression “It never fails” – means it always happens. “It never f ails. It always rains when you go to the beach,” meaning every time I go to the be ach, it rains – “It never fails.”

When I get home with the presents or the gifts, I h ave to “wrap” them. And to “wrap (wrap) a present or a gift” means to put pape r – colored paper usually – around it and you tape it up so it looks nice. The paper is called “gift wrap” – two words – “gift” “wrap.” Ribbons and bows are also so metimes used on presents. A “ribbon” is usually a half-inch, maybe one inch pie ce of material that you – It’s like a big piece of string or rope that you put around the present. And a “bow” is like a little flower that sits on top of the present that is made out of, usually, the same material as the ribbon.

A “holiday card” – when you have a gift, you often give a holiday card – and whatever holiday you celebrate. I said, “By the tim e I’m finished, I’m exhausted.” “To be exhausted” means to be very tired, to be so tired, you can’t do anything else. “I often feel like scrooge. Ba humbug!” Well,  “scrooge” (scrooge) is a fictional person. He is a symbol for someone who do esn’t like Christmas or who doesn’t like the holidays. Charles Dickens wrote a story called “The Christmas Carol” and the main character – the main person in the story – was “Scrooge.” “Scrooge” was an old business owner who was mean an d didn’t like Christmas, didn’t like children. So, someone says, “Don’t be a  scrooge” they mean don’t be like Scrooge – mean and hate Christmas or hate New Year’s or whatever the holiday. The expression “Ba humbug” – and that’s tw o words – “ba” (ba) and “humbug” (humbug) – was something from the story th at Scrooge would say.

Someone would say, “Merry Christmas!” and he’d say,  “Oh, ba humbug!” – means I don’t like it. I don’t believe in it. I thi nk we shouldn’t bother doing it. And it’s usually related to someone talking about Chris tmas and not liking Christmas or not wanting to celebrate Christmas.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue this time at a nat ive rate of speech. > Every year, I tell myself that I won't procrastinat e in doing my holiday shopping. And, every year, I end up with a shopping list as l ong as your arm and about 24 hours to get it all done. Waiting until the last mi nute means that I have to brave the crowds out doing their last minute shopping.
> First, I have to find a place to park in the parkin g lot, which is always packed. Then, I have to fight off the bargain hunters who a re there for the holiday markdowns. With so many shoppers, the shelves are u sually a mess and a lot of items are out of stock. When I've finally picked ou t what I want to buy, there are usually long lines at the register. Just when I'm a bout to check out, I always remember that I've forgotten one last thing. It nev er fails!
> When I get home with the presents, I have to wrap them. Hopefully, I haven't forgotten to get gift wrap, ribbons and bows, and h oliday cards. By the time I'm finished, I'm exhausted and I feel like Scrooge. Ba  humbug!
> Why do I do this to myself every year? Next year, I 'm starting my holiday shopping in September. Then again, I said that last  year.

Today’s script was written by Dr. Lucy Tse of the C enter for Educational Development.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

ESL Podcast is a production of the Center for Educa tional Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 . No part of this podcast may be sold or redistributed without the expressed writ ten permission of the Center for Educational Development.

