# Getting Through on the Phone.

You’re listening to English as a Second Language Po dcast number 132: Getting Through on the Phone.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 132. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

On this podcast, we’re going to talk about trying t o reach someone or communicate with someone on the telephone. Let’s ge t started! > I have been trying to get a meeting with the CEO of  Medofact to talk about a partnership between our company and theirs. But I'v e had a hard time trying to get through on the phone.
> First, there was the phone tree. I had to go throug h three menus before I got the option to speak to an operator. Even after I got th rough, I got the run around from the receptionist.
> Receptionist: Medofact Limited. How may I direct yo ur call?
> Thomas: I would like to speak to Maureen Kennedy.
> Receptionist: Please hold while I connect you with Ms. Kennedy's office. (Pause)
> Secretary: Maureen Kennedy's office. How may I help  you?
> Thomas: Good afternoon. I am Thomas Guarini calling  from Livatect. I would like to set up a meeting with Ms. Kennedy.
> Secretary: Will Ms Kennedy know the subject of the meeting?
> Thomas: Well, I would like to speak to her about a possible partnership.
> Secretary: May I put you on hold for one moment?
> Thomas: Yes, certainly. (I was on hold for a long t ime.)
> We’re talking about trying to make an appointment w ith someone by calling them on the telephone. The name of the podcast is “Getti ng Through on the Phone.” “To get through” means that you are able to, in thi s case, talk to the person that you want to talk to. We also use that expression “t o get through” to mean to get someone to understand us. A parent, for example, mi ght say this about their son or daughter. “I can’t get through to him” means I c an’t seem to communicate with him. He doesn’t seem to understand me, but here, “t o get through” just means to be able to reach someone, or talk to someone on the  telephone. Well, in this case, the person is trying to get a meeting with a CEO. “To get a meeting” is the same as to make a meeting, to make an appointment f or a meeting. The “CEO” is the “Chief Executive Officer” – usually the high est person in a company. The number one person in the company is often called the “Chief Executive Officer” or “CEO.”

Well, the CEO of this company is the person they’re  trying to get a meeting with. And they want to talk about a “partnership” between  the two companies. A “partnership” is, of course, when two people or mor e people come together and have some sort of agreement where they work togethe r. Well, unfortunately, he’s having a hard time trying to get through on the pho ne. First, there was the “phone tree.” And a “phone tree” (tree) – like the tree th at grows in the forest. The “phone tree” is when you call a company and you get a real  person – a live person – you get a message and the message says, “If you want to  talk to Mr. Jones, press 1,” meaning you have to press the number 1 on your tele phone. Well, that’s called a “phone tree.” And he got through, according to the story – he had to go through three menus before he got the option to speak to an  operator. A “menu” is each time you have a choice of things. So, for example, you call a company, and you get the phone tree. And you press number one and th en you get another message saying, “If you want to talk to this person , press 1. If you want to talk to

this person, press 2,” and so forth. And so, you pr ess another number and then you get another menu. So, these are menus in the ph one tree.

Well, he had to go through three of these to get the option or the opportunity – the ability – to speak to an “operator,” meaning the person who answers your call and tells you or helps you find the person you want . The “operator” in a company is the person who directs people. So, you call and you’re not sure who to talk to, the operator will find the right person for you. We ll, even after he got through, he says, he got the “run around” from the receptionist . “To get the run around” – and “run around” is two words – (run) (around) – “to ge t the run around” means that someone is not being very helpful. They’re not givi ng you the information that you need, maybe because they’re lazy or maybe because t hey don’t have time. If you call a government office, you won’t get, sometimes,  an answer. They’ll say, “Well, you have to talk to that person.” So, you call that  person and they say, “No, no. You have to talk to the other person. “ So, that’s called “getting the run around” – when people don’t answer your question or don’t do what you want to do, to have them do, not give you the information that you want .

Well, this gentleman, this person, calls and the re ceptionist answers the phone. This is, of course, the same, in this case, as the operator. She answers the phone but with the name of the company, “Medofact L imited.” That’s not a real company. I just made that name up, invented that na me. The operator says, “How may I direct your call?” That is a very common  expression you’ll hear from people – form an operator in a company. “How may I direct?” means who do you want to talk to so I can find out the right person,  or I can give you the number of the person you need to talk to. So, that’s called –  that expression “How may I direct your call?” – means tell me who you want to talk to and then I can connect you. And “to connect someone” means that you dial t hat person’s number and you connect the two people together.

Well, he says he wants to speak to Maureen Kennedy and the operator says, “Please hold,” meaning please wait while I connect you. When he gets to Ms. Kennedy’s office, the secretary answers, and again,  she answers by saying, “Maureen Kennedy’s office. How may I help you?” – v ery common way to answer the phone in a business, is to identify, to say who  you are and where you are, in this case, Maureen Kennedy’s office.

Well, the gentleman, Thomas, says his name is Thoma s Guarini, calling from “Livatect” – which is the name of his company – als o not a real company. Notice he says, “I’m calling from,” meaning this is the co mpany that I am representing. This is my company I am calling from. “I would like  to set up a meeting with Ms. Kennedy.” The verb “to set up” (set up) – two words  – means to arrange, to make

an appointment – so, to get a meeting is similar to  set up a meeting. “To set up a meeting” means really to schedule, to find a day an d time when you can meet. Well, the secretary says, “Will Ms. Kennedy know the subject of the meeting?” meaning will she know what this meeting is going to  be about. And Thomas says, “Well, I want to speak to her about a possible part nership.” The secretary then says, “May I put you on hold for one moment?” And r emember, “to put someone on hold” means that you have to wait. Usually you h ear music sometimes while you are waiting on the phone, or sometimes you don’ t hear anything. I prefer to hear nothing because usually, the music you hear wh en you are waiting on the phone is really bad. Anyway, so Thomas says, “Sure.  Yes, Certainly.” And that’s an expression we use a lot – “certainly” – it’s a p olite way of saying, “Yes, of course.”

Well, finally the secretary comes back and says, “I ’m afraid Ms. Kennedy is travelling on business.” The expression “I’m afraid ” (afraid) – “I’m afraid” – we use that in front of something that - some bad news  that we are going to tell someone else. So, someone comes up to you and says,  “Can you give me a thousand dollars?” And you say, “I’m afraid I can’t  give you any money.” I’m afraid,” meaning I’m sorry to tell you this, that I  cannot give you any money. Although, you may not be sorry to tell them, but th at’s a polite way of saying that you are going to give them some bad news. Well, the  gentleman in the dialogue says, “Sure, I’ll call back in a couple of weeks.” The secretary asks if he could call back. “To call back” means to call again, to c all on the telephone again. To “check back” means that I’m going to call and see i n two weeks, or however long, whether this person is available.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue this time at a nat ive rate of speech.

[start of story]

I have been trying to get a meeting with the CEO of  Medofact to talk about a partnership between our company and theirs. But I'v e had a hard time trying to get through on the phone.

First, there was the phone tree. I had to go throug h three menus before I got the option to speak to an operator. Even after I got th rough, I got the run around from the receptionist.

Receptionist: Medofact Limited. How may I direct yo ur call?

Thomas: I would like to speak to Maureen Kennedy.

Receptionist: Please hold while I connect you with Ms. Kennedy's office. (Pause)

Secretary: Maureen Kennedy's office. How may I help  you?

Thomas: Good afternoon. I am Thomas Guarini calling  from Livatect. I would like to set up a meeting with Ms. Kennedy.

Secretary: Will Ms Kennedy know the subject of the meeting?

Thomas: Well, I would like to speak to her about a possible partnership.

Secretary: May I put you on hold for one  moment?

Thomas: Yes, certainly. (I was on hold for a long t ime.)

Secretary: Mr. Guarini, I'm afraid Ms. Kennedy is t raveling on business the next two weeks. Would you like to call back?

Thomas: Sure, I'll check back in a couple of weeks.  Thanks for your help.

Secretary: It's my pleasure. Have a nice day.

Thomas: Thanks. You too!

I guess I'll keep trying.

[end of story]

The script for today’s podcast was written by our v ery own Lucy Tse – Dr. Lucy Tse, and we thank her as always. Be sure to visit o ur website for more information and the script of today’s podcast. You can find us at www.eslpod.com.

From Los Angeles, California , I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

