# Saving and Spending Money

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast 163 , “Saving and Spending Money”

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 163. I’m your host Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This Podcast is about how people spend money, and h ow people save it. Let’s go! > In my family, there are penny- pinchers and spendth rifts, and everything in between. My brother Frank has the reputation for be ing stingy with money. He likes to save up and only spend when he has to. I b et he has a lot stashed away. He's careful with money but he does spend it when h e thinks it's necessary, and his wife and kids are very comfortable.
> On the other hand, my brother Jack is known as a sp endthrift. It's not that he's a big spender or a high roller, it's just that he's n ot very careful with money, and doesn't think it's that important. When he has it, he doesn't think twice about spending it. With his friends, he's generous to a f ault. So, what am I? A penny- pincher or a spendthrift? I guess I’m a little of b oth. It depends on who’s asking, and how much they want to borrow.

We’re talking today about the ways that people spen d and save money, our story begins by me describing my family. I say, “In my fa mily, there are penny-pinchers and spendthrifts, and everything in between. A “pen ny-pincher” (penny-pincher) penny-pinchers, plural - penny-pincher without the ‘s’, singular. A penny-pincher is someone who does not spend very much money, who watches every penny, and of course a penny is, in American money, the sm allest amount that you can have. One penny, it’s also called, one cent, (cent) , it’s one one-hundredth of a dollar. So to be a penny-pincher, and to pinch, (pi ncher) here means, to save. To be a penny-pincher means you save every penny that you have. You don’t spend very much money.

Now the opposite of a penny-pincher would be a spen dthrift, and a “spendthrift,” (spendthrift), all one word, is someone who spends all of their money, who doesn’t save their money. They get a dollar, they s pend a dollar. They don’t try to, what we would say, “put it aside,” To “put some thing aside” means to save it for a later time. Now, a spendthrift and a penny-pi ncher are both somewhat negative expressions to describe someone. Most peop le would not describe themselves as either a spendthrift or a penny-pinch er, but spendthrift is particularly negative. Some people might say, “I’m a penny-pincher,” but no one would say, “I’m a spendthrift,” because it’s sort o f an insult, it’s a negative expression.

Well I said, “In my family, there are penny-pincher s and spendthrifts, and everything in between,” meaning, there are people b etween the two opposites of saving all your money, and spending all your money,  everything in between. Now, my brother Frank has the reputation for being stingy with money. “Reputation” (reputation) is what someone is known for, what other people say about him or her. So you could have a good reputati on, or you could have a bad reputation, depends on what people say about you. I  think I have mostly a bad reputation. No, I hope not. Well, my brother Frank has a reputation for being stingy, and to be “stingy” (stingy) is the same as being a penny-pincher, but it’s definitely a negative expression, it’s not a positi ve adjective. You say someone is stingy, means even if they should spend money, they  don’t. That is the meaning of the adjective stingy. Well, Frank has the reputa tion for being stingy, we say stingy with money, but you can just say, stingy. He  likes to save up, and only spend when he has to. The expression, “to save up,”  two words, that verb means basically the same as “to save.” It’s like a lot of  two-word verbs where you have a preposition like “up” that comes after the verb. It ’s more to give emphasis. So I’m going to save to buy a new car. I’m going to save u p, to buy a new car. They mean basically the same, but the “up” gives it a li ttle more emphasis.

Well, my brother likes to save up and only spend wh en he has to, and of course “spend” (spend) means when you give someone else yo ur money for something. I say that “I bet he has a lot stashed away.” I “be t” (bet) means I’m guessing. Of course, to bet as a verb, is something you do when you gamble. “I’m going to play poker,” or “I’m going to Las Vegas and play in  the casino, and when I go there, I bet,” but here, when someone says, “I bet that” or “I bet he is a spendthrift,” what we mean is that, I guess, in my opinion.

Well, I say that “I bet my brother has a lot stashe d away.” “To stash (stash) away” is a verb which means to save, but usually to save a large amount of something, and you’re saving it for a long period of time. “I have some money stashed away,” means I have money that I’m going to use in the future. The noun, “stash”

means that money that you have. So, “Here’s my stas h” means here’s my money that I’m saving. I say that my brother is “careful with money.” “To be careful with money” means of course that you watch what you spen d, that you don’t just buy things because you want to, and you see it and you like it. “I see the new 17-inch Mac PowerBook, and I want to go and buy it,” but, i f I’m careful with my money, I wait or I’m very slow to buy something.

Well, my brother Frank is careful with money, but I  say he does spend it when he thinks it’s necessary, when he has to, he spends it  and his wife and children are comfortable,” meaning they’re not without food, or a house. They’re very comfortable. They have a good life.

Now, I have another brother who is not a penny-pinc her, and I say in the story, “On the other hand, my brother Jack, is known is a spendthrift.” “On the other hand” is when we are going to give in a story a dif ferent example, or an opposite example. Usually, you hear those two expressions to gether, “On the one hand, I don’t want to go to the movie,” “On the other hand,  I have a free ticket, so I should go,”- so when you’re comparing two different  things that are different or opposite.

Well, I say, “On the other hand, my brother Jack is  known as a spendthrift,” someone who spends a lot of money. “It’s not that h e’s a big spender or a high- roller,” when we say someone is a big spender, we m ean, you can guess that they spend a lot of money. A high-roller, high (hig h) roller (roller),  a high-roller is an expression that comes from gambling. When you ga mble for example, in Las Vegas or in Monte Carlo or other places, many times  you gamble by rolling the dice - two little squares that have numbers on them , right? We call those dice (dice). When you roll the dice, you throw the dice down. The most famous game for that is called  craps” (craps), which is kind o f a strange word in English, but that’s what it’s called “craps.” Well, someone who’ s a high-roller is someone who spends a lot of money, either by gambling or by goi ng out and spending their money to buy different things. And it’s a term that  means the person isn’t very good with money. Usually, they’ll spend a lot of mo ney, that’s a high-roller. Now, it’s not necessarily a negative term. If you are ri ch, you can be a high-roller. You can spend a lot of money, because you have a lot mo ney.

Well I say that, “It’s not that my brother is a big  spender, or a high-roller, it’s just that he’s not very careful with money.” Notice the expression, “It’s not that, it’s just that”. When we are explaining something to som eone and you want to give them the reason why something happened, or why some one did something, you can start by giving them something that isn’t true,  “It’s not that I don’t like Tom Cruise, it’s just that I think he’s not the best pe rson to marry.” That would be an

example, it’s not that, it’s just that. So when you  say, “It’s just that,” you’re giving the real reason - the true reason, and when you say , “It’s not that,” you’re saying what isn’t true - what you don’t believe is true.

Well, my brother is not careful with money. He does n’t think that being careful with money is important. When he has it, meaning wh en he has money, he doesn’t think twice about spending it. The expressi on, “to think twice” (twice), two times, to think twice means to be careful - to thin k about something before you make a decision, before you take an action. So some one may say to you, “Think twice about not going to school today, because ther e’s a big test, and if you don’t go, you will get a poor grade”. The expression, “He  doesn’t think twice,” “Don’t think twice,” means they don’t think about it at al l. They just go ahead and do whatever it means. It’s a neutral expression, it’s neither positive nor negative. Someone says, “Don’t think twice about calling me f or help,” means “Don’t worry, you can call me for help anytime.”

Well here I say that, “My brother doesn’t think twi ce about spending his money.” “With his friends” I say, “he’s generous to a fault ”. To be “generous” (generous), means that you give someone money or time, or somet hing that will help them, someone who is generous gives other people money wh o need help. The expression, “to be generous to a fault,” (fault) me ans basically that they are very generous, that they help everyone that they can. He ’s generous to a fault, he likes to help everyone who needs help, and that’s w hat the expression means here.

Well, I end the story by asking what I am. “Am I a penny-pincher, or a spendthrift?” and I say, “I’m a little of both,” me ans of course, I’m partly a penny- pincher and I’m partly a spendthrift. “It depends o n who’s asking and how much they want to borrow,” means it depends on who’s ask ing me for money. “To borrow” (borrow) means that you ask someone else for money. So it depends on who wants money from me. I might be a spendthrift i f I like them, and I might be a penny-pincher if I don’t.

Now let’s listen to the story this time at a native  rate of speech.

[start of story]

In my family, there are penny- pinchers and spendth rifts, and everything in between. My brother Frank has the reputation for be ing stingy with money. He likes to save up and only spend when he has to. I b et he has a lot stashed away. He's careful with money but he does spend it when h e thinks it's necessary, and his wife and kids are very comfortable.

 On the other hand, my brother Jack is known as a sp endthrift. It's not that he's a big spender or a high roller, it’s just that he's n ot very careful with money, and doesn't think it's that important. When he has it, he doesn't think twice about spending it. With his friends, he's generous to a f ault. So, what am I? A penny- pincher, or a spendthrift? I guess I’m a little of both. It depends on who’s asking, and how much they want to borrow.

[end of story]

The script today was written by Dr. Lucy Tse. We th ank her as always. Remember to visit our website at www.eslpod.com for  the script for today’s podcast, and more information about ESL Podcast. Fr om Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan, thanks for listenin g. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. McQuillan. This podcast is copyright,  2006.

