# Making Unkind Comments

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 100. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast number  100. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Today we are going to talk about saying unkind or n ot nice things about another person and how we react to that. Let’s get started!  > Yesterday, I was talking to an ex-colleague of mine  who, frankly, has something of a big mouth. I bumped into him at the beach, whe re he was walking his dog. Anyway, as I was saying, he's the kind of guy that' s always bad mouthing his co- workers. So he came up to me and said, "Hey, Jeff. Long time, no see. What've you been up to?" "Ah, not much, " I said. "Well, gu ess who I saw yesterday? John Robeson, the guy from accounting at Firth Indu stries. You remember him, the guy with big ears and and an ego to match." “It  takes one to know one,” I thought, but I kept it to myself. "Oh, really? How interesting," I replied. 
> "Yeah, well, I hate to talk behind someone's back, but ever since he and I had that falling out last year, I've never really cared  for the guy." "How come?" I asked. "Well, he's a bit of a backstabber, always t rying to outdo the other guy." "I know what you mean," I said. I knew at this point i t was time to make my exit, otherwise, this guy would go on about John Robeson for the next 10 minutes. 
> "What time do you have?" I asked him. "It's quarter  after five." "Geez, already? Man, I've got to hit the road. I'm suppose d to meet my brother at the pier in a few minutes. But, hey, it was sure go od to see you again. You take care!" With that, I made my exit. I've got better t hings to do than to listen to him gripe all day.

In my story, I said that “I was talking to an ex-co lleague of mine,” and “colleague” is someone usually that you work with or that is in  the same profession or the same occupation as you are. An “ex-colleague” here would mean someone that I use to work with. I said that “Quite frankly, he ha s something of a big mouth.” “Quite frankly” means quite honestly – to be very h onest. “To be frank” means to be honest. I said he had a “big mouth.” To say some one has a “big mouth” is  

something of an insult. It means that they talk too  much, that they’re always telling things to other people, that they should no t. I said I “bumped into him at the beach.” “To bump into” means to meet someone th at you were not expecting to meet. It is similar to “I ran into.” “I ran into  my friend at the supermarket.” I wasn’t expecting or planning to see him there but t here he was. 

My friend was “walking his dog.” “To walk your dog”  of course, means to take your dog outside so the dog can well, do his busine ss, let’s say. I said that “my friend is the kind of guy who is always bad mouthin g his co-workers.” “To bad mouth” means to say bad things about another person . “Don’t bad mouth your friend” meaning – means don’t say unkind or un-nice  things about your friend. 

“Co-workers” is the same as colleagues, someone tha t you work with. I said that my friend “comes up” to me. He comes up to me and s ays – to “come up to someone” means to approach someone – he says to me,  “Long time, no see.” This is a common expression that we often use. It’s  an informal expression which means “it’s been a long time since I have seen you. ” “Long time no see” – you say that to someone you have not seen in a long tim e. He told me that he saw a mutual - or someone that we both know – friend, Joh n Robeson, and he said, insulting John, that he had “big ears and an ego to  match.” Well, an “ego” – your ego is, of course, your pride. Your ego is how you feel about yourself. When someone has a “big ego,” they think they’re very im portant. To say someone has an “ego to match” – “to match” means the same as, t he same size as or the same amount as. He said – my friend said that “the guy has big ears and an ego to match” meaning his ego is also big.  

I thought to myself, “it takes one to know one.” “I t takes one to know one” is another expression just like “Long time, no see” – very common in American English. “It takes one to know one” means when some one says something unkind - not nice – about another person, we someti mes say, if that same person has those same negative or unkind qualities, “it ta kes one to know one” – for example, someone who has a big ego who complains ab out another person with a big ego. “Well, it takes one to know one.” You ha ve to be something in order to recognize it in someone else.  

My friend said that he “hated to talk behind someon e’s back.” “To talk behind someone’s back” means to say un-nice, again unkind things, not nice things about someone when they are not present – when they  are not there.  

He, my former colleague, my ex-colleague said that he and Jon Robeson had a “falling out” last year. A “falling out” means an a rgument – a fight, not necessarily a physical fight, but when you have a disagreement with someone and that  

disagreement causes you to not talk to each other. “My friend and I had a falling out over who was going to pay for dinner last night .” You often – we often say we have a “falling out” over some problem.  

My friend says that he “never really cared for John  Robeson.” “To care for someone,” of course, means to like someone in this case. “To care for” also means “to help,” “to assist,” but here it just mean s to like. “How come?” I asked, meaning “why?” “How come, why?” - it’s an informal way of asking why. Well, my friend said “He’s a bit of a back stabber.” A “back  stabber” – “to stab” means to take usually a knife and put it into something. “To  stab someone” means to take a knife and put it into them. A “back stabber” woul d be somebody who attacks you without you having a chance to defend yourself.  It’s very closely related to the expression “to talk behind someone’s back.” A “ back stabber” is someone who does something not nice, something unkind to yo u behind your back, meaning without you knowing.  

According to my ex-colleague, John Robeson was alwa ys trying to “outdo” the other guy. “To outdo” means to do better than the o ther person. I said “At this point, I needed to make my exit.” “To exit,” of cou rse, means to leave. “To make your exit” means to leave. It means the same as exi t – to make my exit. It comes – the expression probably comes from the theater, f rom someone on a play – in a play rather, making their exit – meaning they lea ve the stage, the leave off where people can see them. 

I said my ex-colleague would “go on about John for the next ten minutes.” “To go on about something or someone” means to talk too mu ch. “I was talking to my brother yesterday and he went on and on about his n ew car,” meaning he talked for a long time – too long of the time. I used a co uple of expressions in responding to my ex-colleague. I asked him, “What t ime do you have?” This is the same as asking someone “What time is it?” It’s a little bit more polite. If you come up to a stranger or someone that you do not kn ow and you say, “Excuse me, what time is it?” -  that’s okay but a little m ore polite way would be to say, “Excuse me, can you tell me what time you have?” He re I just said, “What time do you have?” meaning could you tell me the time. A fter I was told the time, I said “Geez, already?” “Geez” (geez) is an informal way of saying, “Wow!” I also said, “Man I’ve got to hit the road.” “Man” here is  again informal. It just is an expression of excitement or it means the same as – sometimes we say, “Boy!” “Boy! I’ve got to hit the road.” It just emphasizes  that you have to do that particular thing. The thing I had to do was “to hit  the road.” “To hit the road” means to leave, to go somewhere. “What time are we going to hit the road?” “Well, we’ll probably leave at 7pm.” The pier – I s aid I was meeting my brother at  

the “pier.” The “pier” – a pier is (pier) something  that goes out into the ocean from the beach. It’s usually made of word and people can  walk out onto the pier.  

I told my ex colleague that it was “sure good” to s ee him again. This is a common way of saying goodbye to someone after or someone t hat we haven’t seen in a long time. “It’s sure good to see you again,” means  it’s nice to see you again. I told him to “take care” – that is “to take care” of  himself. Again, a very common expression – “You take care!” means I hope that eve rything goes well for you, that you take care of yourself. I wanted to leave b ecause I didn’t want to hear my friend “gripe” all day. “To gripe” (gripe) means to  complain. It’s a somewhat informal expression meaning, “to complain.” 

Now let’s listen to the dialog, this time at a norm al rate of speech. 

[start of story] 

Yesterday, I was talking to an ex- colleague of min e who, frankly, has something of a big mouth. I bumped into him at the beach, whe re he was walking his dog. Anyway, as I was saying, he's the kind of guy that' s always bad mouthing his co- workers. So he came up to me and said, "Hey, Jeff. Long time, no see. What've you been up to?" "Ah, not much, " I said. "Well, gu ess who I saw yesterday? John Robeson, the guy from accounting at Firth Indu stries. You remember him, the guy with big ears and and an ego to match." “It  takes one to know one,” I thought, but I kept it to myself. "Oh, really? How interesting," I replied. 

"Yeah, well, I hate to talk behind someone's back, but ever since he and I had that falling out last year, I've never really cared  for the guy." "How come?" I asked. "Well, he's a bit of a backstabber, always t rying to outdo the other guy." "I know what you mean," I said. I knew at this point i t was time to make my exit, otherwise, this guy would go on about John Robeson for the next 10 minutes.  

"What time do you have?" I asked him. "It's quarter  after five." "Geez, already? Man, I've got to hit the road. I'm suppose d to meet my brother at the pier in a few minutes. But, hey, it was sure go od to see you again. You take care!" With that, I made my exit. I've got better t hings to do than to listen to him gripe all day. 

[end of story] 

That’s going to do it for today’s English as a Seco nd Language Podcast. From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.  

 ESL Podcast is produced by the Center for Education al Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 .

