# Eating at a Buffet

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 151: Eating at a Buffet. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast number  151. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, and as usual , in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

On this podcast, we are going to eat and eat a lot.  Let’s get started! > I love eating at all-you-can-eat buffets. It doesn' t matter what kind of food it is, I'm up for it.  
> Last week, I went to a high-end seafood buffet with  my friends. We walked in and the hostess seated us at a table. She asked if we w anted to order any drinks. Drinks other than water are not included in the pri ce.  
> I got up and got a plate. I went over to the soup a nd salad station first and then over to the hot food. They had a carving station an d made-to-order omelets. They also had a great dessert table, but I wasn't r eady for that yet. I sat down, ate, and grabbed a new plate for the second round. This time, I went for the seafood. I loaded up my plate and sat down again. A fter two more trips to the buffet, I was ready for dessert. I got a little of everything. I was so stuffed, I couldn't eat another bite.  
> I really enjoyed the meal. I like being able to ser ve myself. Some people don't like buffets unless they're very high-end. Not me. Give me any high-end or low-end buffet and I'm perfectly happy.

In this podcast, we get to eat. It’s called “Eating  at a Buffet.” And a “buffet” is spelled (buffet). A “buffet” is a restaurant or a p lace in a restaurant where they have food and you go and get whatever food you want  and put it on your plate. And usually, these are “all-you-can-eat.” “All-you- can-eat” means you can take as much food as you want. You can’t take it home. You have to eat it there. But “all- you-can-eat buffets” are very popular in the United  States – that’s probably why there are so many fat Americans. The most popular b uffets are “Indian” buffets –  

Indian food and “Chinese” buffets with Chinese food , though there are also a few Japanese buffets and other types of general buffets  with different types of food.  

Well, in the story, I say that “It doesn’t matter w hat kind of food it is” – it’s not important – “I’m up for it.” “To be up (up) for (fo r) something” means that you are ready for it, that you are willing to do it. “I’m u p for going hiking.” “I’m up for walking in the park.” I say that “Last week, I went  to a high-end seafood buffet.” When we say something his “high” (high) – “end” (en d)” – we mean that is expensive or that it is considered to be among the top most expensive type of, in this case, buffet. You can also talk about high-end  stores – stores that sell very expensive things – things that cost lots of money. So, a “high-end seafood buffet,” of course, would be one that had seafood –  types of fish. Well, you walk into a buffet and the hostess “seats you.” The “hos tess” is, of course, the person who is at the front of the restaurant near the door  that takes you to your seat. And there’s actually a verb which is “to seat someo ne” (seat) – means to show them to their table – usually, at a restaurant. It also can be used in a theater, for example, where the person who takes you to your sea t is called an “usher” (usher). In a restaurant, that person is called the  “hostess” if it’s a woman and a “host” (host) if it’s a man.  

The “hostess” asks if the people in the story wante d any drinks. And at a buffet, typically, you get the food free, but if you want s oda or something else to drink other than – except, that is – water – you have to pay extra for it – pay separately. That’s why the story says, “Drinks are not included in the price.” They’re not part of the price. So, if you go to a C hinese buffet that cost $10 a person – which is about a typical price for a buffe t - $8, $10. Here in Los Angeles, a high-end buffet, a more expensive buffet , might be $15 or $20. If you go to a buffet like that you probably will have to pay $1.50 or maybe $2 to get a Coca-Cola or some other type of soda.  

Well, in the story, it says that “I got up and got a plate and I went over to the soup and salad station.” A “station” (station), when we are talking about a buffet, is a part of the buffet. It’s like the area of that part icular type of food. And this was soup and salad. “Then I went to the hot food. They had a carving station there.” A “carving station” (carving) is a place where they h ave a big piece of meat – usually beef or maybe ham or pork. And they have so meone cutting it for you and giving you the pieces that you want. Another wo rd for cutting a piece of meat is “to carve a piece of meat.” So, on Thanksgiving,  for example, we carve a turkey – that is, we cut the meat off of the turkey . 

There was also a station for “made to order omelets .” An “omelet” (omelet) is, you probably know, eggs, usually with a little milk   or something, and they mix  

together and you put them in a frying pan to cook t hem. Usually, you put other things in there like ham or cheese or tomatoes – th at’s my favorite kind of omelet. Well, at a buffet, they have “made to order omelets .” So, they have someone standing with a frying pan and you go up to them an d say, “I want a ham, cheese, tomato omelet.” And they will make it for y ou right there and give it to you.  

They also had a great dessert table and a “dessert”  (dessert), of course, the sweet things, sugary things, that you eat after a m eal. I say that “I sat down and I ate and then I grabbed a new plate for the second r ound.” “To grab” (grab) means to take, in this case. So, I took another pla te. I picked up another plate and I went for a second round. A “round” here means  (round) – means a second time that I eat – a second serving. Normally, we ta lk about rounds in, for example, a boxing match. A boxing – where two peopl e are boxing each other – they usually have several rounds – 15 rounds I thin k. And each round is very short – 2 or 3 minutes. Well, we use that same expr ession here, sort of as a joke. I went for my second round. Notice that you have to  take a new plate. When you eat at a public restaurant – at a buffet – once you  sit down and start to eat from your plate, you can’t use that same plate again. So , if you go to a buffet in the United States and you get your food and you sit dow n and eat it, and you want more food, you leave your plate on the table and yo u go get another plate – a new plate – and you do that each time you go and ge t food. 

Well, I say that I loaded up my plate. “To load up”  (load) up (up) means to put a lot of things on there. We can use that verb “to lo ad up,” for example, if we are moving. And we need to put some boxes in a truck or  in a car. We can “load up” the car – means we fill it up – we put lots of thin gs in it. Well, here, “loading up your plate” means to put a lot of food on your plat e. I then say that after two more trips to the buffet, I was ready for dessert. And a  “trip” here just means the same as a round – two more times going to get food. I sa id, “I got a little of everything” – means a small amount of many different things. “I  was so stuffed, I couldn’t eat another bite.” “To be stuffed” (stuffed) means that  you’ve eaten so much that you are not just full, but you are very full. Someone s ays, perhaps, “I stuffed myself at the buffet” – means I ate a lot – too much. I say t hat “I couldn’t eat another bite” – means I could not eat another piece of food. A “bit e” (bite) of food is a piece of food. We also use that word “bite” as a verb” and t hat’s what your teeth do when they chew on something –when you put a piece of foo d in your mouth, you can bite it, meaning that your teeth come together. 

I said I enjoyed my meal and that “To me, I could g o to any high-end or low-end buffet.” And “low-end” (low-end), is of course, the  opposite of high-end. A “low- end” buffet would be a cheap or inexpensive buffet.   

 Now let’s listen to the story this time at a native  rate of speech. > I love eating at all-you-can-eat buffets. It doesn' t matter what kind of food it is, I'm up for it.  
> Last week, I went to a high-end seafood buffet with  my friends. We walked in and the hostess seated us at a table. She asked if we w anted to order any drinks. Drinks other than water are not included in the pri ce.  
> I got up and got a plate. I went over to the soup a nd salad station first and then over to the hot food. They had a carving station an d made-to-order omelets. They also had a great dessert table, but I wasn't r eady for that yet. I sat down, ate, and grabbed a new plate for the second round. This time, I went for the seafood. I loaded up my plate and sat down again. A fter two more trips to the buffet, I was ready for dessert. I got a little of everything. I was so stuffed, I couldn't eat another bite.  
> I really enjoyed the meal. I like being able to ser ve myself. Some people don't like buffets unless they're very high-end. Not me. Give me any high-end or low-end buffet and I'm perfectly happy.

The script for today’s podcast was written by Dr. L ucy Tse and we thank Lucy for her work. Remember you can always see the script of  the story or dialog each day by going to our website at eslpod.com.  

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast. 

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

