# Driving Directions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 105: Driving Directions. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 105. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, from the Center for Educational Dev elopment in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Today’s podcast is going to be about giving someone  directions or instructions about how to drive to a certain place. Let’s get st arted!  > I was getting into my car at the mall when I notice d a man standing nearby with a map. He looked confused and I asked him if I could help. He looked up and was clearly relieved. He was from Houston, Texas, he to ld me, and he was visiting his daughter. She was at work that afternoon and he wan ted to take the opportunity to buy her a present before she got back, but he wa sn't accustomed to driving in L.A. and he got all turned around. His daughter liv ed near the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and he needed to find his way back. 
> I was familiar with that area so I gave him some di rections: 
> "When you drive out of the mall, turn left and get into the far right lane. You need to get on the 10 freeway and the on-ramp will be on  your right. Go about two blocks and you will see a sign that says 10W right after you cross under the bridge. Once you are on the freeway, look out for t he exit for La Brea Avenue. Get off at that off-ramp and you will be heading no rth on La Brea. Go straight up La Brea, past Venice Boulevard, and keep your eyes out for Wilshire Boulevard. If you get to Beverly Boulevard, you've gone too fa r. A good landmark to look for is the big Samsung sign on the corner, at the inter section of La Brea and Wilshire, atop an office building. Make a left on W ilshire, going west. Go about six blocks and you'll see the museum on the right-h and side."  
> The man said that he knew his way from the museum a nd thanked me for the directions.  
> I was glad I could help. I don't envy anyone who ha s to drive the freeways in L.A. It's not for the faint of heart! 
> Today we’re giving driving directions to someone wh o is lost, driving here in Los Angeles, and I talk a lot about driving here in Los  Angeles because everyone has a car and everyone drives. There is not very good p ublic transportation in this city. Other cities like New York or Chicago, even S an Francisco have better public transportation than Los Angeles but here in Los Angeles, we spend a lot of time in our cars.  

I started the story by saying that I was “getting i nto my car” at the mall. “To get into your car” means to enter your car, to open the  door and sit down and close the door. I said I was getting into my car at the m all or the shopping center and I noticed a man standing nearby with a map. “To be st anding nearby” means to be standing close to you, in the area that is close to  you. If we use the word “nearby,” we mean it’s in the area around us. If we  use the word “near” then we usually have to say what it is near to, so, for exa mple, “The man was standing near the door.” You would not say, “The man is stan ding near.” You have to say “near” where. You have to say where he is or she is  near to but if you say “nearby” then you don’t need to do that. It just me ans “in the general area.”  

The man looked confused and I asked if I could help . “He looked up,” meaning he raised his head and looked at me. He looked up a nd was “clearly relieved.” “To be relieved” means that you feel calm because s omeone has solved a problem for you, or feeling anxious or stressed and  now you feel relaxed. The man then was relieved – he was “clearly relieved” ( clearly), which is an adverb here that means he was obviously relieved. I could tell immediately. That word – that adverb, “clearly,” we use a lot to mean very o bviously, you can tell right away. You could say, “The woman was clearly a model  because she was beautiful.” A “model,” of course, is someone who is  very beautiful and wears clothes that companies are trying to sell. Anyway, there were no models in the story.  

The man was lost and he said he was from Texas, Hou ston, Texas, which is of course one of the many large cities in Texas – the state of Texas. He was visiting his daughter and he wanted to take the opportunity to buy her a present before she got back. “To take the opportunity” means to ta ke advantage of the time or the situation. “Let me take this opportunity to tha nk you for being there” means let me take advantage of the fact that I am talking to you now, to thank you. Here, the man took the opportunity to “buy a present,” me aning he had some time and now he was able to take advantage of it. The woman – or the man was going to buy a present or a gift for his daughter “before sh e got back,” meaning before she returned back to her house.   

 The man wasn’t “accustomed” to driving in L.A. “To be accustomed to” means to be used to, to be familiar with. And because of tha t he got all “turned around.” “To be turned around” means to be lost. You’re driv ing, you take a right on one street, you take a left on another street and you g et “all turned around,” you get lost. He needed to “find his way back.” “To find hi s way back” means to find out how to return to the place where he left. I gave hi m some driving directions. I told him, “When you drive out of the mall, turn left and  get into the far right lane.” “To drive out of,” here means to leave, to exit. “When you drive out of the mall, turn left and “get into the far right lane.” A “lane” is  a part of a road. Usually, if it’s a regular street, there are two lanes, one for each d irection. In a freeway – on a freeway, particularly in Los Angeles, you usually h ave two, three, sometimes five or six lanes. Here in L.A, many of the freeways hav e four, five, six different lanes going in each direction. Well, I advised or told th e man to “get into” -- and that’s the verb we would use, “get into the lane” – means go over to that lane, and this was the “far right lane,” meaning the lane that was  farthest to the right. The opposite, of course, would be the “far left lane.” In the United States, the “far right” – I’m sorry, the “far left lane” is usually the lane where if you want to drive faster. If you want to pass or go in front of anoth er car, you get into the “far left lane,” and if you get into the “far left lane” and you don’t drive fast, you will have many angry drivers behind you.  

I told the man to “get on the 10 freeway and the on -ramp will be on your right.” As you probably know, in the United States, we have a national freeway system and these freeways all have numbers. The freeways that go east to west are even numbers and those that go north to south are odd nu mbers, so Highway 5 goes north to south and Highway 10 goes east to west. Hi ghway 10 is the major, important highway – freeway that goes from the Paci fic Ocean in Santa Monica all the way to the Atlantic Ocean, so it cuts acros s the entire country and it begins here in Los Angeles. The “on-ramp” (on ramp) is whe re you get on a freeway. A “ramp” is usually something that goes up or goes do wn. Freeways are usually above or below the level of the rest of the area ar ound them, in a city in particular, so you either go on a – you get on an o n-ramp, you’re either going to go up or you’re going to go down. In order to find the on-ramp, I tell the man to go two blocks and he will see “a sign that says 10W  right after you cross under the bridge.” “To go two blocks” means, of course, t o drive two blocks, a “block” being the distance between two streets. I said, “Go  two blocks and you will see a sign that says 10W,” and “W” here stands for 10 “We st.” “Right after you cross under the bridge,” meaning as soon as you cross und er or go underneath the bridge, you will see the sign. That expression, “ri ght after,” means immediately after something.  

After he gets on the freeway, I tell the man to loo k for the “exit” for La Brea Avenue. The “exit” (exit) is where you leave the fr eeway, so he looks for the exit for this street or avenue called “La Brea,” a big a venue here in Los Angeles. I tell the man to “get off at the off-ramp” and he will be  “heading north on La Brea.” The expression, “to get off in a freeway,” means to  leave, to exit. You normally “get off at an exit” and the “off-ramp” (off ramp) is the ramp that takes you off the freeway and onto the city street, what we would pro bably call here in Los Angeles, a “surface street.” “Surface streets” are everything but the freeway. The man is told to “head north.” “To head north” means to go north, to go in the direction of north. I tell him to go straight up La  Brea, past Venice Boulevard. “To go straight” means you don’t turn, you don’t go lef t, you don’t go right. We often use the expression “ to go up a street” or “to go d own a street.” Sometimes when we say “go up,” we mean north, or “go down,” we mea n south, but people use those expressions often without referring to a part icular direction, north, south, east or west. I could’ve said, “Go down La Brea,” a nd that would’ve been understood to mean the same as, “Go up La Brea,” bu t occasionally you want to distinguish and people will use “go up” to mean go north.  

I said to go “past” Venice Boulevard.” “To go past”  (past) means that you’re going to drive beyond it. You’re going to drive past it. You’re not going to stop there. I tell him to “keep your eye out” for Wilshire Boulev ard. “To keep your eye out” means to be watching carefully for. We usually use that expression when something is going to happen very soon, and in this  case, I tell him to “keep his eye out” for this particular street or boulevard. W ilshire Boulevard again, a major, important street in Los Angeles, goes east, west. 

I tell him if he gets to Beverly Boulevard, “You’ve  gone too far,” meaning you’ve driven too far, you have to turn around and go back , return to where you were. A “good landmark,” I said, is a sign at the corner, t he intersection of La Brea and Wilshire. A “landmark” (landmark), all one word, is  a sign or a building or something that helps you find a place, something th at is very noticeable, that you can see very easily, so, for example, a landmark co uld be a building. It could be a sign. It could be anything that helps you find wh ere you are. “You know you have arrived at Wilshire Boulevard if you see the b ank.” Well, the bank is a “landmark.” It tells you -- it helps you figure out  where you are. That’s how we’re using it here. I tell him to look for the big “Sams ung” sign, and “Samsung” is a name of a Korean electronics manufacturer – company , at the intersection. “The intersection,” all one word (intersection), is wher e two streets cross, a north-south crosses an east-west. That’s an intersection. 

The “intersection” – the sign at the intersection i s - I say, is “atop an office building” (atop) – means it’s on top off – just ano ther way to say on top of, “atop.”  

I tell him to “make a left,” that is to say, “to tu rn left.” You can say “make a left.” You can say, “Go left.” You can say “Turn left.” Th ey all mean the same. And you should “go about six blocks,”  in other words, driv e about six blocks, and “you’ll see the museum on the right-hand side.” The “right- hand side,” of course, is the side to his right. We could’ve just said, “You’ll s ee the museum on your right,” and here we say – it means the same as “You’ll see the museum on the right- hand side.” The man said he knew his way from the m useum and thanked me. To say “you know your way” means you know how to ge t there. You don’t need more directions.  

I ended the story by saying, “I don’t envy the man. ” “To envy someone” means to want what they have. I say, “I don’t envy him” beca use driving in L.A is “not for the faint of heart.” “The faint (faint) of heart (h eart)” means for those who don’t have courage, for those who are weak. If you are “f aint of heart,” you are not very strong, you don’t have a lot of courage. 

Now let’s listen to the story this time at native r ate of speech. 

[start of story] 

I was getting into my car at the mall when I notice d a man standing nearby with a map. He looked confused and I asked him if I could help. He looked up and was clearly relieved. He was from Houston, Texas, he to ld me, and he was visiting his daughter. She was at work that afternoon and he wan ted to take the opportunity to buy her a present before she got back. But, he w asn't accustomed to driving in L.A. and he got all turned around. His daughter liv ed near the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and he needed to find his way back. 

I was familiar with that area so I gave him some di rections: 

"When you drive out of the mall, turn left and get into the far right lane. You need to get on the 10 freeway and the on-ramp will be on  your right. Go about two blocks and you will see a sign that says 10W right after you cross under the bridge. Once you are on the freeway, look out for t he exit for La Brea Avenue. Get off at that off-ramp and you will be heading no rth on La Brea. Go straight up La Brea, past Venice Boulevard, and keep your eyes out for Wilshire Boulevard. If you get to Beverly Boulevard, you've gone too fa r. A good landmark to look for is the big Samsung sign on the corner, at the inter section of La Brea and Wilshire atop an office building. Make a left on Wilshire, g oing west. Go about six blocks and you'll see the museum on the right-hand side."  

The man said that he knew his way from the museum a nd thanked me for the directions.  

I was glad I could help. I don't envy anyone who ha s to drive the freeways in L.A. It's not for the faint of heart! 

[end of story] 

That’s all we have time for today. I’m Jeff McQuill an from Los Angeles, California. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ES L Podcast. 

ESL Podcast is a production of the Center for Educa tional Development in Los Angeles, California. This podcast is copyright 2005 . No part of this podcast may be sold or redistributed without the expressed writ ten permission of the Center for Educational Development.

