# Reading and Watching the News

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 147: Reading and Watching the News. 

You’re listening to English as a Second Language Po dcast episode 147. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

Today’s podcast is about reading and watching the n ews. Let’s go! > I'm a news junkie. I like to read two newspapers ev ery day. I don't just look at the headlines. I read most of the stories. I like the p olitical news, the business news, the editorials, and the entertainment news. The onl y things I don't usually read are the sports pages and the classifieds.  
> I also try to catch the local TV news each day. I l ike to watch Channel 4 for the news reporting, but I like the weather report on Ch annel 9 mainly because the reporter is not only good, she's beautiful! For the  national news, I like all three of the network anchors, so it doesn't matter which one  I catch. 
> On top of that, I like to read a newsmagazine each week. I like the long  feature stories that give more in-depth coverage of that we ek's top stories.  
> So, when I said I was a news junkie, I wasn't jokin g. When I travel to other countries, the first thing I do is look for an Engl ish-language newspaper. Then, I can relax!

In this podcast, we’re talking about reading and wa tching the news – what happens in the world. The story begins by saying, “ I’m a news junkie.” A “junkie” (junkie) is a word we normally use to describe a pe rson who is addicted to a drug like cocaine or heroin, something like that. But wh en we say a “news junkie,” we mean someone who is addicted to news, who likes to do something a lot. The story says that “I like to read two newspapers ever y day” – that’s actually true. I do like to read two newspapers every day. I don’t j ust look at the headlines. The “headlines” (headlines) – all one word – the headli nes are the titles of the stories. Usually, they’re in bigger print and you can read t hem easily.   

 There are different types of news in a daily newspa per. There is “political news” – news about politics, government, that sort of thing . The “business news,” of course, is news about what’s happening in finance a nd business. The “editorials” (editorials) – an editorial is an opinion. And it’s  usually someone on the newspaper, who works for the newspaper, or someone else who writes an editorial. We sometimes call these, either, opinion s or editorials, or we’ll call them “Op-ed” (op-ed). “Op-ed” pieces are opinions or edi torials that are written for the editorial page.  

In most American newspapers, there are actually two  pages of editorials every day. The newspaper writes editorials that it often doesn’t sign. But then there are individuals who have editorials and, of course, peo ple write letters to the newspaper. And there’s also “entertainment news” – news about celebrities, about Tom Cruise or Jennifer Anniston, and so forth  – that’s entertainment news. I say here that I don’t usually read the “sports pa ges” or “classifieds.” The “sports pages” are, of course, the section of the newspaper  that talks a lot about sports. The “classifieds” in a newspaper (classified) – her e it’s plural – the “classified” – “classifieds.” We sometimes call these the “classif ied ads.” These are advertisements for everything – jobs, cars – people  who are selling things will put in a “classified” in the newspaper – that is a clas sified advertisement. They’re called “classifieds” in part because they are arran ged in the newspaper according to a certain classification or category. So, all th e ones about selling cars are in the same classification, the same section.  

I say I also try to catch the “local” news. We use that verb “to catch” (catch) to mean here to watch. Someone may say to you, “Did yo u catch that movie on television last night?” And well, you say, “No, I d idn’t catch it,” or “Yes. I watched it.” You can also say, “I caught.” “I caught a good  show on last night.” It means to watch. The “local TV news” are, of course, the news  broadcast that talk about things from a particular city, in a particular city  – Los Angeles, of course, here. We have different channels – what we call “local ch annels” here in Los Angeles and every big city. Usually, there are two or three . Many times, however, there are five or six in a given city. Big cities like Lo s Angeles and New York have several local channels or local stations that you c an watch. And, of course, the channels have a number. So, Channel 4, Channel 11, Channel 9, and so forth.  

I say that I like to watch the “weather report.” Th e “weather report” (report) is the section of the local news where they tell you about  the weather. And the story says that “I like to watch Channel 9 because the we ather reporter” – and a “reporter” (reporter) is the person that gives a re port or gives you certain news. “The weather reporter is not only very good, but sh e’s beautiful.” That’s actually  

true. There is a beautiful weather reporter on Chan nel 9 here in Los Angeles. I only watch her when my wife is not home. So, don’t tell her. 

The “national” news – we talked about local news, b ut there are also national news programs. There are usually one of these every  day, at least. They’re 30 minutes long and there are three – the three bigges t television companies. We call them “networks” (networks). The three biggest networks each have their own program and the person who reads the news is called  “the anchor” (anchor) – the “anchor.” That word “anchor,” we also use for a boa t, when you want to stop your boat or keep your boat in one place on a lake or an  ocean, you drop or put an anchor. It’s a heavy weight. Well, in a news progra m – a television news program – the anchor is the most important person. It’s the  person that reads most of the news and there usually is one, sometimes two people  who are the anchors, they could be co-anchors. I say I like them all. So, it doesn’t matter which one I catch. Notice again, “catch,” meaning to watch a televisio n show.  

I say, “On top of that, I like to read a newsmagazi ne each week.” That expression “On top (top)” – “On top of that” means in addition  to. We usually use that expression when someone has been telling you about many different things – a lot of things – and then they say, “On top of that, ” meaning even more than the many things they have told you. Well, on top of wat ching the news and reading the newspaper, I also read a “newsmagazine.” “Newsm agazine” is all one word – (newsmagazine) – and that is usually a weekly magaz ine that gives you the news – the national news for that entire previous week. The biggest newsmagazines are Time, and Newsweek, in English. But there are o ther newsmagazines also. Some of them are political, some of them are entert ainment, some of them are sports and so forth. But a newsmagazine, usually, i s a general newsmagazine like Time or Newsweek, when we say that, use that e xpression. 

I say that “I like the longer feature stories that give more in-depth coverage.” A “feature” (feature) or a “feature story” is a longe r story that gives more information. And to say something “gives more infor mation,” means it gives “in- depth coverage. “In-depth (in-depth)” – “in-depth” means with a lot of detail – talking about something for a long time and giving very specific, detailed information. “Coverage” (coverage) is a noun we use  to describe when a news story is about a certain topic. We say that the sto ry “covers” a topic. And so the “coverage” as a noun, is what a reporter or a magaz ine or a newspaper says about a particular topic. So, to have “in-depth cov erage” would mean to have lots of details about a particular topic. I say I like t o read about the “top stories.” The “top (top) stories” are the most important stories.  

Now let’s listen to the story this time at a native  rate of speech. 

[start of story] 

I'm a news junkie. I like to read two newspapers ev ery day. I don't just look at the headlines. I read most of the stories. I like the p olitical news, the business news, the editorials, and the entertainment news. The onl y things I don't usually read are the sports pages and the classifieds.  

I also try to catch the local TV news each day. I l ike to watch Channel 4 for the news reporting, but I like the weather report on Ch annel 9 mainly because the reporter is not only good, she's beautiful! For the  national news, I like all three of the network anchors, so it doesn't matter which one  I catch. 

On top of that, I like to read a newsmagazine each week. I like the longer feature stories that give more in-depth coverage of that we ek's top stories.  

So, when I said I was a news junkie, I wasn't jokin g. When I travel to other countries, the first thing I do is look for an Engl ish-language newspaper. Then, I can relax!  

[end of story] 

The script for today’s podcast was written by Dr. L ucy Tse. Remember to visit our website at www.eslpod.com for more information abou t this podcast.  

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. A s always, thank you for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast. 

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

