# Awards Show Season

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 126: Awards Show Season.

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast epi sode 126. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center f or Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

The script and research for today’s program is  pro vided by, as always, Dr. Lucy Tse.

This podcast is going to be talking about all of the awards or prizes that are given to the best songs, movies, and television shows in the United States. Let’s get started! > It's that time of year again. It's award show seaso n. No, I'm not talking about the Nobel Prizes. I'm talking about the entertainment a wards. This is the time of year when the TV shows and movies are nominated as the b est of the year. Celebrities get together at an award ceremony and t he winners are announced. My favorites are the Emmy Awards for television, the Academy Awards for the movies, and the Grammy Awards for records. But, I'm  up for almost any award show‚ The Golden Globes, the SAG Awards, even the P eople's Choice Awards.
> For some people, the best part of watching the awar d shows is the pre-show. The celebrities arrive on the red carpet and are in terviewed. Sometimes what they are wearing, made by the top designers and jew elers, gets more attention than anything they say. But, it's still fun to see all of the celebrities all in one place, and you never know what will come out of the ir mouths when they win ; better yet, when they lose.

We’re talking about awards or prizes that are given  to movies and songs, television programs in the United States. Our story  begins by saying, “It’s that time of year again.” “it’s time of ” is an expressi on that we use to say, once again, this is the weeks, the months when we do a certain thing. You can use that expression for “It’s time of the week .” You can sa y, “It’s that time of year.” You

can use it with other types of time. But when we sa y, “It’s that time of year again” we mean once again, we are going to get the same ev ent, the same thing is going to happen. But what’s going to happen here is  that there are going to be Awards Shows and the story continues, “It’s Award S how season.”

A “season” (season) is a period of time. A couple of weeks, a couple of months, whenever something is happening so, “Award Show sea son” are the weeks and months when there are these prizes given and they’r e given at a show. So, “Award Show” is usually in a big theater or in a bi g room where everyone comes together and they give out the award. Notice the ve rb there “to give out an award” – means to give someone an award.

Well, to give out the award would be the actual sho w, in this case. Well, the story says, “I’m not talking about the Nobel prizes.” And  you know the “Nobel (Nobel) Prize” is one of the most famous prizes in the worl d, given to the best scientists and the best people who are good writers, the best writers. There’s also the Nobel Peace Prize and these are given every year in  Stockholm, Sweden. Well, we’re not talking about the Nobel prizes, not that important. We’re talking about entertainment awards. And this is the time of year when the TV shows and movies are nominated. “To be nominated,” “to nomina te” (nominate) – “to be nominated” – with a “d” at the end – means that you  can win that prize. Usually, it doesn’t mean that you won – that you have won the p rize. It means that you could win the prize. You are a nominee, you are nom inated. So, for example, for the movie awards, the Academy Awards, we call them,  they have four or five films or directors or actors who are nominated in e ach category, meaning they give out lots of awards. They give one award for di fferent types of movies, for different people in the movie, the most important a ctor or actress – man, woman, so forth. Well, these are categories that have four , five nominees – people or films, movies that are nominated. Then they vote - the people who vote for the award will vote – pick one of those five as the win ner.

Well, in the award shows, there are celebrities. An d “celebrity” is a famous person – an actor, or a director, usually someone i nvolved in entertaining other people like songs, movies and TV shows. Well, these  people are all celebrities and they get together at an award ceremony. An awar d show can also be called an “award ceremony” (ceremony). A “ceremony” is a f ormal event in which you give someone something or something important happe ns. There are lots of different types of award ceremonies or award shows.  The television people have their own awards and in the United States, the awar ds are called the “Emmy” (Emmy). That word doesn’t mean anything in English.  An “Emmy” award or simply an “Emmy” is an award that is given for the best television shows, the best television actors, so forth. For a movie, they’re c alled the “Academy Awards”

(academy). Some people call them simply, the “Oscar  Awards” or “The Oscars.” “The Oscars” are the little award – what the actual  award is called. It’s a man in gold and it’s you know, maybe a foot, 12 inches, 16  inches high, and that’s called “The Oscar.” So, the “Academy Awards” or the “Oscar  Awards” are for movies. And for songs, in the United States, they’re called  the “Grammy Awards” (grammy). Again, doesn’t really mean anything in En glish – the word “Grammy.” It probably comes from “Gramophone” which is an old  type of way of playing music or sound. But the “Grammy Awards” are for son gs or for records. And a record, of course, is a collection of songs.

Well, in the story, the person says, “I’m up for al most any award show.” When you say, “I am up for something” you mean I am will ing to do or watch, in this case, that show. “I am up for swimming” means I’m i nterested in going swimming. I would want to go swimming if I had the chance. So, “I’m up for any award show” means I would watch any award show if i t were on television. And then there’s a list of some other famous award show s in the U.S. – the “Golden Globes” (globes). “Golden,” of course means that it  looks like gold. The “Golden Globes” are awards that are given to both movies an d television shows. The “SAG Awards” (SAG) – the “S” stands for screen. A “ screen” is what you go into when you go into a movie theater. You see the movie  on a movie screen – “screen.” Well, “screen” – the SAG Awards are for t he screen actor or Screen Actors Guild. And a “guild” (guild) is an old word in English. Here it just means the union or the work organization. Well, they have  the Screen Actors Guild – these are all the actors – their organization – the y have their own awards. And there’s also something called the “People’s Choice Awards” where you can, living in the United States, vote for your favorite TV sho w or movie. And that’s called the “People’s Choice Awards.”

For many people, the most interesting part of the a ward show is not the actual show, but what happens before the show. What’s some times called a “pre-show” – (pre) show. And the “pre-show” is when the stars and the celebrities arrive at the theater or the place where the award ceremony i s being held – is going on. And when they arrive, they usually walk up a carpet  that is on the ground and it is a “red carpet.” In fact, the expression in English,  “to roll out the red carpet,” meaning to put down the red carpet – means to give someone a very good treatment, to do everything you can to make someone  feel welcome. Well, the stars come up the red carpet and there are televisi on stations and reporters from newspapers that interview them, that talk to them a nd one of the  things they talk about, particularly for women, is the kind of dress  they are wearing. In fact, one question they will often get is, “What are you wear ing?” Of course, they’re usually wearing a dress – the women are – but what that que stion means is who’s the

designer, who made your dress. And people who desig n, who make dresses and figure out how they should look are called “designe rs.”Of course, stars also have diamonds and other types of jewelry, like a ring or  earrings, and these are made by people called “jewelers.” A “jeweler” (jewelers)  is someone who sells – makes and sells jewels.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue this time at a nat ive rate of speech. > It's that time of year again. It's award show seaso n. No, I'm not talking about the Nobel Prizes. I'm talking about the entertainment a wards. This is the time of year when the TV shows and movies are nominated as the b est of the year. Celebrities get together at an award ceremony and t he winners are announced. My favorites are the Emmy Awards for television, the Academy Awards for the movies, and the Grammy Awards for records. But, I'm  up for almost any award show‚ The Golden Globes, the SAG Awards, even the P eople's Choice Awards.
> For some people, the best part of watching the awar d shows is the pre-show. The celebrities arrive on the red carpet and are in terviewed. Sometimes what they are wearing, made by the top designers and jew elers, gets more attention than anything they say. But, it's still fun to see all of the celebrities all in one place, and you never know what will come out of the ir mouths when they win ; better yet, when they lose.

Remember to visit our website at www.eslpod.com for  a script for today’s podcast.

From Los Angeles, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thank you  for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

