# Volunteer Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 150: Volunteer Work.

You’re listening to English as a Second Language Po dcast episode 150. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

On this podcast, we’re going to learn about people who volunteer their time to help others. Let’s get started! > Some people say that it's civic duty to "give back"  to your community. That's true, but for me, I want to do some volunteer work so tha t I can feel useful. I've been working at the same job for years and it's not at a ll rewarding. Yes, I make good money, but I never feel like I'm doing any good in the world.
> When I was in college, I had dreams of changing the  world. I wanted to work in a non- profit organization that did relief work, th at helped women and children in need, or that had an impact on public policy. I've begun to think again about those dreams and thought I might take the first ste p of doing some volunteering. Then, I can see if I like that kind of work and mak e some hard decisions.
> I called an organization that helped homeless child ren. I told them about my education and experience, and they said they could use someone like me to do some tutoring. I filled out an application and was fingerprinted for a background check. A few weeks later, I met my student and I tu tored her for the first time. It was a great experience. I wish I had done it earlie r!

In this podcast, Lucy talks about volunteer work. S he begins by saying, “Some people say it’s civic duty to give back to your com munity.” “Civic (civic) duty (duty)” means that it is your responsibility as a c itizen of a country, as a member of a society, that you help other people. “Civic” ( civic) usually relates to the public helping people in a public way. “Duty” (duty) means  responsibility. So, it’s sort of your public responsibility to other people. “To giv e back” means that you are trying to repay or return to the larger public – wh at they have, perhaps, helped you with or given you. Lucy says that she wanted to  do some volunteer work so that she could feel useful. Although “work” (work) is normally something that we

think about as getting paid for, you can also have a “volunteer work” and (volunteer) “volunteer” is when you don’t get paid,  when you help someone because you want to help them.

She says that she’s been working at the same job an d that it’s not rewarding. “Rewarding” (rewarding) – something that is rewardi ng is something that you get a benefit from – that gives you something back for what you are doing, that you feel is important or useful. We can sometimes say, “That was a very rewarding trip if you were able to get something that you wan ted from it.” So, when Lucy says her work is “not at all rewarding,” she’s sayi ng that it is not rewarding very much or not rewarding at all. It’s not something th at is giving her pleasure or giving her a benefit.

She says that when she was in college, she had drea ms of changing the world and that’s probably pretty common. She said she wan ted to work in a “non-profit organization” that did relief work. A “non (non) pr ofit (profit)” – can be all one word or (non)-profit. A “nonprofit” is an organizat ion that doesn’t try to make money. It doesn’t try to have a profit. It’s not li ke a business. So, the Red Cross or the Crescent, the Red Crescent, are both example s of a nonprofit organization. “Relief work” (relief) – “relief work ” is the work that certain organizations like the Red Cross and Red Crescent –  these are organizations that help people who are in a disaster area – maybe  an area where there is war going on. These are examples of relief work.

One type of work that Lucy was interested in was he lping women and children in need or work that had an impact on public policy. T he expression “in need” (need) – “in need” – means that you need something,  usually because you are poor or because you had something bad happen to you  and now you need someone else to help you. Normally, though, we thin k about this expression “in need” as talking about someone who’s very poor or i n a very difficult situation.

To have an “impact on public policy” means to have in influence on the laws or programs of the government. “Public policy” really refers to anything that the government does – what their programs, their ideas – where they spend their money – these are all part of public policy. And th ere are many people who work to try to change the policy. My nephew, for example , works in Washington D.C – the capital of the United States – for a political organization, and he is trying to have an impact on public policy. He’s young – gradu ated from college – what we would say, “very idealistic.” “Idealistic” (idealis tic) – “idealistic” means that you believe that you can change the world. You have lot s of ideas and you want to convince other people to adopt or to put into place  your ideas – that would be “idealistic” – that’s the adjective. The person wou ld be an “idealist” and the idea

of “idealistic” would be “idealism” (idealism). So,  those are all words that we might talk about for those who want to change publi c policy.

Lucy decided that she was going to call an organiza tion that helped “homeless” children. “Homeless” (homeless) refers to people wh o don’t have a home – people who are living without a permanent home. And  unfortunately, in the United States, as in many countries, there is a hom eless – a large homeless population. Here in Los Angeles, for example, if yo u go to some parts of the city, you will see people who are living on the street an d one of the things that many volunteer organizations try to do is help those who  do not have anywhere to go. In the case of Lucy, she said that she wanted to do  some “tutoring.” “To tutor” (tutor) is when you help someone in school. Usually , tutoring is done “one-on- one.” “One-on-(on)-one” – and “one-on-one” means th ere’s just you, as the tutor, and the student that you are helping.– There’re jus t two people.

Well, she had to fill out an application for this t utoring work. An “application” is what we call the paper that you put your informatio n on. If you want to get a job, you often have to fill out an application. If you want to get a credit card, you have to fill out an application. In this case, Lucy want s to volunteer so she has to fill out an application. Notice the verb there “to fill out”  – two words – means to put information on an application. The verb is “to appl y.” So, “I’m applying for a job,” or “I’m applying for a position” – that means you’r e trying to get it.

Well, as is true for all teachers in California and  in many other states, you have to get “fingerprinted.” “Fingerprint” (fingerprint) is  a verb. It’s also a noun. And as you probably can guess, it means that you have to t ake your fingers and now, it’s done by a computer electronically. They “scan” (sca n) – means they like take a picture – similar to taking a picture – of your fin gers and, of course, everyone has a unique set of fingerprints – that’s the mark that  your fingers make when you touch something. We use fingerprints, for example, to find criminals. If they left their fingerprints, we say. We look at them and we try to match them. Well, part of the security for schools and for children is to have people who work there, including the teachers – need to get fingerprinted and then an organization, usually a private company, will do a search and the y will look at all of the criminal records because, if you commit a crime in the Unite d States – you do something wrong and you’re arrested, meaning the police take you and put you in jail, they will fingerprint you and they keep a big database –  a big list of all these fingerprints on computer and then if you are a crim inal, they don’t want you working with children. So, that’s why teachers and others get “fingerprinted” in the United States if you are working at a school an d for other things as well.

Getting fingerprinted is part of a “background chec k.” A “background (background) check (check)” – a “background check” is when someone looks into your background, your history – make sure you weren ’t a criminal or that you haven’t had problems with the police – that’s a bac kground check.

Now let’s listen to the story this time at a native  rate of speech.

[start of story]

Some people say that it's civic duty to "give back"  to your community. That's true but for me, I want to do some volunteer work so tha t I can feel useful. I've been working at the same job for years and it's not at a ll rewarding. Yes, I make good money, but I never feel like I'm doing any good in the world.

When I was in college, I had dreams of changing the  world. I wanted to work in a non- profit organization that did relief work, th at helped women and children in need, or that had an impact on public policy. I've begun to think again about those dreams and thought I might take the first ste p of doing some volunteering. Then, I can see if I like that kind of work and mak e some hard decisions.

I called an organization that helped homeless child ren. I told them about my education and experience, and they said they could use someone like me to do some tutoring. I filled out an application and was fingerprinted for a background check. A few weeks later, I met my student and I tu tored her for the first time. It was a great experience. I wish I had done it earlie r!

[end of story]

The script for today’s podcast was written and read  by our very own Dr. Lucy Tse.

That’s all we have time for today. Remember to visi t our website at eslpod.com for the script of today’s story as well as more inf ormation about this podcast.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

