# Taking the Bus in Los Angeles

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 157: Taking the Bus.

You’re listening to English as a Second Language Po dcast episode 157. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Ce nter for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

On this podcast, we’re going to take a ride on the bus. Here we go! > I just moved to L.A. and don’t have a car. Everybod y says that you can’t get around this city without one, but I wanted to prove  them wrong.
> I asked my neighbor to take me to the downtown bus station so I could try taking the bus home. She thought I was crazy, but gave me a ride. When I got there, I went inside and got a bus schedule. I looked at the  map and figured out that I needed to take three buses to get home. The fare wa s $1.75 per ride and I could buy a single ticket, a booklet of 20, or a bus pass . I would need transfers, too, to change buses.
> I took my map and went outside to wait at the bus s top for the Number 8 bus. Soon, it pulled up and I got on. I gave my ticket t o the bus driver and took a seat. At the stop where I needed to get off, I rang the b ell, the bus stopped, and I got off. I waited for the next bus. I waited and waited . A man who was also waiting for the Number 14 bus said that it wasn’t unusual for t he bus to be delayed. It finally got there and I found out that the bus had broken d own along the route and they had to get another bus to take its place. By this t ime, I was getting pretty tired. Maybe getting a car in L.A. wasn’t such a bad idea.

We’re taking the bus in this podcast. I have to say  that this is definitely a fictional story – a made up story, one that is not true – bec ause I have lived in Los Angeles for about 15 years and I have never taken a  bus here in Los Angeles. I used to take a bus all the time when I lived back i n Minnesota, but the public bus system in Los Angeles – the public transportation s ystem is very poor compared to most big cities in the world. It is not a very c onvenient way to move from one part of the city to another, to get from one part of the city to another. So, I had to

make this story up. Actually, Dr. Tse had to make t his story up, but it is the same pretty much in any American city, the way the bus s ystem works.

Well, our story begins by me saying that “Everybody  says that you can’t get around in this city – in Los Angeles – without a ca r. But I wanted to prove them wrong.” Everybody says you can’t get around. “To ge t around” – two words – means to be able to go from one place to another – not a specific place. For example, you wouldn’t say, “I need to get around fr om my house to the beach.” When you use the verb “to get around,” you mean in general, getting from one place to another within the city. “How do you get a round?” “I have a car,” or “I take the bus.” I said that I wanted to “prove other  people wrong” about not owning a car in Los Angeles – not having a car in L os Angeles. “To prove someone wrong,” of course, means to show them that they are wrong – to give them evidence that they are wrong. You can prove so meone wrong. You can prove someone right. But usually, you try to prove people wrong – that’s just the way we are as humans, I guess.

Well, I asked my neighbor to take me to the downtow n bus station. And “bus station” – two words – is the main place where the buses are located. Usually, it’s near a downtown area. But most people don’t go to t he bus station to get a bus because, of course, the buses go around the city. You can pick them up anywhere in the city. But the buses all begin, usua lly, from a bus station. Of course, you can have a bus station. You can have a train station. We sometimes call these stations – these places – “terminals” (t erminal). A “terminal” is where something ends, but when we talk about a bus termin al, or a train terminal, those are usually for buses and trains that are going to other cities – to other places.

So, I’m at the downtown bus station in our story. M y neighbor “gave me a ride” to the bus station. And, of course, “to give someone a  ride (ride)” means that you drive them there. They go with you in your car. Whe n I got to the bus station, I went inside and got a “bus schedule.” And, of cours e, the bus schedule is a list of all the times and places where the buses travel to.  “I looked at the map and I found out I needed to take three buses from downtow n to my house.” There wasn’t one bus that went directly near my house. So , I had to take three of these.

 Well, the “fare” (fare) for the bus ride was $1.75 , one dollar, seventy five cents. And, of course, the “fare” is the amount of money t hat you have to pay. We use the word “fare” for buses. We use it for airplanes.  “How much is the airfare?” “How much is the bus fare?” “How much is the train fare?” – anything that has to do with transportation. We even say, “How much is t he cab, or taxi cab, fare?” It’s the price that you pay. Well, you can buy a single ticket, which means it’s only one ride. You can buy a booklet of twenty tickets. A “booklet” (booklet) is a small

book, but it’s not a book that you read. A “booklet ,” in this case, is just a collection of tickets that you can use for the bus.  We can use booklet as something you do read. A small book could be called  a booklet. Usually, we use the term “booklet” for things that are informationa l. So, if you go to the doctor and you have a certain problem, he may give you a bookl et to read with information about it. But here, “booklet” is just a collection of tickets. Another thing that you can get to ride a bus is a “pass” (pass). A “pass” – you pay usually, a certain amount of money for a week or a month. And you can use the bus as much as you want during that time. There are bus passes, th ere are train passes, but I don’t think there are any airline or airplane passe s.

One of the things you have to do sometimes, and I h ave to do in this story, is to “change buses.” And usually, they will give you – w hen you get on the bus – what’s called a “transfer.” A “transfer” (transfer)  is a little – it’s like a ticket that says you already paid for this ride. So, you don’t have to pay again when you get on another bus going in the same direction. So, we call these “transfers.” If you want to change buses or go to another bus, you need  a transfer. The way things work in buses is that when you first get on the bus , you have to pay. You put money in a machine or you give the driver, the bus driver, a ticket, or you show the bus driver your pass. You can’t get on the bus without paying.

In most American buses, you can only get on the bus  in the front of the bus. There’s usually two doors, one in the front and one  in the middle for you to get out of the bus. But you can only get on, on the fro nt door. Well, I said I took my map and I went outside to wait at a “bus stop.” A “ bus stop – two words – (bus stop) – is a place, obviously, where the bus stops.  There are bus stops that are marked (marked). “To be marked” means there’s a sig n that says, “This is a bus stop.” And often, in many cities, there will be a p lace for you to sit by the bus stop. We usually call that a “bench” (bench). Somet imes, there’s a little shelter and a “bus shelter” is a small – it’s like a small,  little house but it’s not a house. It’s a place where you can stand in case it is rain ing to keep dry. So, there’s a little roof with usually, some side walls. But it’s  not a big thing. It’s maybe, 5 or 6 people could stand underneath the bus shelter. Thes e are more popular in northern cities like Minneapolis, St. Paul – where I’m from – Chicago, New York – those places probably will have bus shelters more t han here in Los Angeles because, of course, it’s always sunny here in Los A ngeles; that’s why it’s so beautiful. That’s not true, of course. It’s raining  right now, outside, as I record the podcast. But normally, it’s sunny.

Well, I am waiting for the number 8 bus. And buses usually have numbers as they do in most countries. And we say “the number 8  bus.” We would not say, “I’m waiting for number 8 bus.” We would use the in definite article “the.”

Sometimes, people will say, “I’m waiting for the 8 bus.” They won’t even say the word number, but the 8 bus, or the number 8 bus.

Well, the bus “pulled up” and I got on. When we say  a bus “pulled up” we mean that it drove to where I was standing and stopped. So, the bus pulled up. A car can pull up, meaning you’re standing somewhere and a car comes and parks right near you. We would say, the car “pulled up” t o you. “The bus pulled up and I got on,” meaning I entered the bus. I gave my ticke t to the bus driver. I took a seat. And at the stop where I needed to “get off,” meaning at the place where I needed to get off the bus, I rang the bell. And in many American buses, there’s a button or a cord – a string that you pull so that t he bell rings and the driver knows that you want to get off at the next stop. Of cours e, it’s important to ring the bell before you get to the stop.

Well, I got off and I waited for the next bus and I  waited a very long time. And someone told me that “it wasn’t unusual” for the bu s to be delayed. “It wasn’t unusual” means it’s usual. Of course, when you have  two negative ideas in a sentence in English, it’s a positive – the idea is a positive one. So, if we say “it wasn’t unusual,” we mean it is usual, it is common.  “It wasn’t unusual for the bus to be delayed.” “To be delayed” (delayed) means to be late – not to be there on time. It’s delayed. If you go to the airport and yo u look up at the television screen – the computer monitor that has the airplane inform ation – if it says “delayed” next to the place where you’re going – next to your  airplane – that means that it’s not going to leave on time – that’s maybe the worst  thing you want to see in an airport, is that your flight has been delayed, your  plane has been delayed.

Well, here in the story, the bus was delayed. The b us had “broken down.” When we say an automobile or a bus, or any sort of machi ne “breaks down,” we mean it stops working. This bus broke down along the rou te. The “route” (route) – which some people pronounce “route” – the “route” i s the places where the bus travels. A “route” is like a path. It is a place wh ere something goes, travels across. In this case, the route could be up Sunset Boulevard and then down La Brea Avenue and then across Wilshire Avenue to Sant a Monica – that would be the route. You can talk about a “route,” also for a  parade. Someone says, “Where is the parade route?” We just had a marathon race h ere in Los Angeles a couple of weeks ago, the Los Angeles marathon, and there w as a marathon route. So, they block the streets so that the runners can run.  Not me, but, you know, people who run. “Runners,” I guess, we would call them. So , in this case, the bus broke down and the company had to get another bus to take  its place – that is, another bus that would pick up the riders or the passengers  for the bus that broke down.

I should also mention that most buses are operated by the government, the local government. So, the city has a company that runs the buses. Well, I was getting pretty tired and at the end of the story, I conclud ed – I came to the conclusion – that L.A really requires a car – that “getting a ca r wasn’t such a bad idea.” Once again you see two negatives here. “Bad” is negative  and “was not” is negative. So, someone says, “It wasn’t such a bad idea,” what  they’re saying is it’s a good idea. So, you’ll often hear, even though you don’t normally put two negatives in a sentence – there are some common expressions where we use two negative words such as this case, it wasn’t such a bad idea.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue this time at a nat ive rate of speech. > I just moved to L.A. and don’t have a car. Everybod y says that you can’t get around this city without one, but I wanted to prove  them wrong.
> I asked my neighbor to take me to the downtown bus station so I could try taking the bus home. She thought I was crazy, but gave me a ride. When I got there, I went inside and got a bus schedule. I looked at the  map and figured out that I needed to take three buses to get home. The fare wa s $1.75 per ride and I could buy a single ticket, a booklet of 20, or a bus pass . I would need transfers, too, to change buses.
> I took my map and went outside to wait at the bus s top for the Number 8 bus. Soon, it pulled up and I got on. I gave my ticket t o the bus driver and took a seat. At the stop where I needed to get off, I rang the b ell, the bus stopped, and I got off. I waited for the next bus. I waited and waited . A man who was also waiting for the Number 14 bus said that it wasn’t unusual for t he bus to be delayed. It finally got there and I found out that the bus had broken d own along the route and they had to get another bus to take its place. By this t ime, I was getting pretty tired. Maybe getting a car in L.A. wasn’t such a bad idea.

Our script for today’s podcast was written by Dr. L ucy Tse.

Remember to visit our website at www.eslpod.com for  a script for today’s story and more information about this podcast.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast.

 English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

