# Packing Toiletries for a Trip

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 122 – Packing Toiletries for a Trip. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 122. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Today’s podcast is about packing for a trip. Let’s go! > It was going to be my wife's 30th birthday, and I w as surprising her with a trip to San Diego for the weekend. Since it was going to be  a surprise, I needed to pack both of our bags before picking her up from work an d hitting the road.  
> Packing my stuff was easy, of course. I knew that t he hotel would have shampoo, conditioner, and body lotion, so I didn't pack any.  I packed my wife’s brush, comb, hair dryer, nail clippers, and emery board. I  made sure that I didn't forget any of her makeup: foundation, mascara, eye shadow,  blush, and lipstick.  
> I had everything we needed for our little trip. I w as sure my wife would be surprised, and I know she loves surprises!

Today we’re talking about going on a trip, and befo re going on a trip – going somewhere else – you have to “pack.” “To pack” (pac k) means to put clothing in a bag or in a suitcase. A “suitcase” (suitcase) is a bag in the shape of a box that you put your clothing into to carry it when you’re going on a trip. Some of the things you need to pack are “toiletries.” “Toiletri es” (toiletries) are all the things that you need for your teeth and for your hair and for washing and so forth.  

In the story, my wife’s 30th birthday was coming up , and “I was surprising her with a trip to San Diego.” “To surprise” someone me ans to do something unexpected, something they don’t expect. I was goin g to surprise her by taking her on a trip to San Diego. “San Diego” is a city i n California about a hundred miles south of Los Angeles. It takes about two hour s to drive from my house here in Los Angeles to San Diego. San Diego is a popular  place for people in Los Angeles to go for the weekend because it’s a smalle r town and a very nice area. 

The trip was going to be a surprise, so “I needed t o pack both of our bags” – my suitcase and her suitcase – before “picking her up from work.” “To pick someone up” means to go to the place where that person is a nd to give him or her a ride in your car – to drive that person somewhere in your c ar. After I picked her up from work, we would be “hitting the road.” “To hit (hit)  the road” means to begin your trip, to start travelling, to start driving. “What time are you going to hit the road tomorrow?” “Well, I have to be at work by eight o’c lock, so I will hit the road at seven thirty.”  

I said that “packing my stuff was easy, of course.”  “My stuff” (stuff) here means my things. I knew the hotel would already have “sha mpoo, conditioner, and body lotion.” “Shampoo” (shampoo) is a liquid soap for w ashing your hair. “Conditioner” (conditioner) is what you can put on your hair after you use the shampoo to make your hair softer. I don’t use “cond itioner.” I don’t use shampoo either, because I don’t have any hair. “Body lotion ” is a kind of “lotion” (lotion), which is something you put on your skin to make it soft and smooth. “Body lotion” is for your body, “face lotion” is for your face, a nd so forth.  

I had to pack my wife’s things, so I packed her “br ush,” “comb,” and “hair dryer.” Both a “brush” (brush) and a “comb” (comb) are thin gs that women and men can use to arrange their hair, to make their hair neat.  A brush is wide and has many rows of what are called “bristles” that go through your hair. A comb is thin and flat with little pieces of plastic called “teeth” that a lso go through your hair. And a “hair dryer” – two words, (hair) (dryer) – is a lit tle machine that blows hot air. It is like a heater that blows hot air to dry your wet ha ir after you wash it. 

I also packed my wife’s “nail clippers” and “emery board.” “Nail (nail) clippers (clippers)” are for trimming or cutting your “nails ,” which are the same as “fingernails.” Fingernails grow at the ends of your  fingers, and “toenails” grow at the ends of your toes. And “to clip” means to cut. So, a “nail clipper” is for cutting your nails. An “emery board” – two words, (emery) ( board) – is used to “file” your nails, or to make the edges of your nails smooth so  there aren’t any rough parts.  

(I have to say that I had no idea about many of these things; I had to ask my wife to explain them to me to do today’s episode . Most men don’t, I think, know much about these things.) 

Finally, “I made sure that I didn’t forget any of h er makeup.” “Makeup” (makeup) is a general word for all of the things that women and sometimes men put on their faces. I packed my wife’s “foundation,” “masc ara,” and “eye shadow.” “Foundation” (foundation) can either be a powder, w hich is loose and dry, or it can be a liquid, which is wet. Foundation makes you r skin look all the same color   

and very smooth-looking, and it is the first step i n putting on makeup – that’s what my wife tells me.  

”Mascara” (mascara) is the makeup that you put on y our eyelashes. Your “eyelashes” (eyelashes) are the little hairs that g row out of your eyelids. Your “eyelid” is the skin that covers your eye when you close your eye. So, your eyelashes grow out of your eyelids, and you put mas cara on your eyelashes to make them darker and to make them look longer. And “eye shadow” (shadow) is a powder that you put on your eyelids. Eye shadow c omes in all different colors , I’m told . 

I also packed her “blush” and “lipstick.” “Blush” ( blush) is what you put on your cheeks. Your “cheeks” (cheeks) are the part of your  face below your eyes, and some women use blush to make this area look more pi nk or red. And finally, there is “lipstick.” “Lipstick” (lipstick) goes on your lips, which are the parts of your mouth that are pink or red. Lipstick is most often a pink or red color, but it also comes in many other colors, as well. 

I now had everything for our trip, and we were read y to go! 

Now let’s listen to the story again, this time at a  normal speed. 

[start of story] 

It was going to be my wife's 30th birthday, and I w as surprising her with a trip to San Diego for the weekend. Since it was going to be  a surprise, I needed to pack both of our bags before picking her up from work an d hitting the road.  

Packing my stuff was easy, of course. I knew that t he hotel would have shampoo, conditioner, and body lotion, so I didn't pack any.  I packed her brush, comb, hair dryer, nail clippers, and emery board. I made sure that I didn't forget any of her makeup: foundation, mascara, eye shadow, blush, and  lipstick.  

I had everything we needed for our little trip. I w as sure my wife would be surprised, and I know she loves surprises! 

[end of story] 

Our thanks to our scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, for h er wonderful scripts.  

