# Buying on the Internet

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 140: Buying on the Internet. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 140. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

On this podcast, we’re going to talk about buying s omething over, or on, the Internet. Let’s get started! > It's true that I don't like shopping. When I want t o buy something, I do it online. I like buying on the Internet because I can easily do  some comparison shopping and find the best price. It's easy, too. 
> Last week I wanted to buy some new headphones. I di d a search and found a pair on sale at a store in New Jersey. I read the p roduct description and knew that this was the right one. I added it to my shopp ing cart and I was ready to check out. The screen showed that I had one item in  my basket and that it was in stock. I had a choice of shipping and I picked stan dard shipping for $5.95, rather than the expedited shipping for $12.95. I clicked t he "continue" button and filled in my shipping address and my billing address. Then , it took me to the payment screen and I typed in my credit card number and exp iration date. I clicked the "Purchase" button and I was done. I got a confirmat ion page with a tracking number. I checked the next day and it showed that m y item had already been shipped.  
> Buying on the Internet is perfect for someone like me. Now, if only finding a girlfriend was just that easy.

We are shopping on the Internet today, buying thing s on the Internet. And our story begins with the narrator, the person telling the story, saying that when they buy things, they like to do it “online.” “Online” ( online) means buying something on the Internet – it’s the same as being on the Int ernet, being online. The person likes to buy on the Internet and you can also say b uy “over the Internet,” but “on” is probably now a little more common. This person l ikes buying on the Internet  

because they can do some comparison shopping. “Comp arison shopping” (comparison) is when you can compare or look at two  different stores or three different stores or ten different stores and see wh ich store has the cheapest price. That’s comparison shopping, looking at diffe rent stores and getting their prices. 

Well, last week, the narrator wanted to buy some ne w headphones. “Headphones” – all one word – are those things you put on your ears – that cover your ears – to listen to music or podcast or whatev er you want to. We usually say “headphones” – that sometimes – word – get’s used a lso for the types of earphones that go into your – adjust into your ear.  They don’t cover your whole ear. We often call those “ear buds” (buds). “Ear bu ds,” like the iPod has white ear buds. But a headphone, the old type of headphone is  the one that covers your whole ear and we usually say this is a “pair” of he adphones. A “pair of headphones,” because, of course, there are two and two is a pair (pair). Well, he finds a pair of headphones at a store in New Jersey . New Jersey is a state on the east coast of the United States right next to New Y ork –the state of New York.” He reads the product description and knows that it’ s the right one. The “product description” when you buy something on an Internet store, there’ll usually be some sort of sentence or paragraph that gives you m ore information about the product. A “product” (product) is just the thing th at you are buying. So, the product is whatever you are buying. The product des cription will have a description of what you are interested in.  

This person knew that it was the “right one” or the  “correct one,” meaning it’s the one that he wants. So, the first thing he does is h e “adds it to his shopping cart.” This is an electronic shopping cart. A “shopping ca rt” – “shopping cart” are two words – (cart) – “shopping cart” is normally, in a store like a grocery store – a supermarket – it’s what you push, that you put all of your food into this big – it’s like a big basket that has wheels on it and you can  push it. But in an Internet store, the shopping cart is where you put things th at you want to buy and you can put things in your shopping cart and if you change your mind, you can take them out again. So, it’s like a place where the Internet  store holds the things that you are interested in buying. And normally on a website , on an Internet store, you can click on a button that says, “Shopping Cart” and th at will tell you what you plan on buying, what you have decided to buy.  

When you’re ready to buy, then you “check out” – tw o words – (check) out. “To check out” means to purchase or to buy the product,  to actually now decide that you’re going to buy it and you make that decision, then you check out and again, you’ll often see a button on an Internet store that  says, “check out” – that’s what you do when you want to finish and go ahead and buy  what you want. Well,  

when the person looked at their shopping cart, in t he story, the screen showed or the computer screen showed that they had one item –  he had one time in his basket. And it was “in stock.” An “item” (item) is similar to a product. It’s the thing that you are going to buy – the individual product that you are going to buy. You can say, for example, that the product is an iPod a nd you could have two iPods. So, you have two of the same item or two of the sam e product.  

Your “basket” (basket) is the same as your shopping  cart. So, If you say, “I have one item in my basket,” that’s the same as one item  in my shopping cart – the place that holds the things I’m thinking of buying.  And the item is “in stock.” We say something is “in stock” – two words – “stock” i s (stock) – that means that the store actually has the product. So, if you’re buyin g an iPod and it says it’s “in stock,” that means they actually have the iPod and can send it to you. If it says it’s “out of stock” – “out of stock” means they don ’t have any. So, sometimes you’ll go to a store and you’ll say, “Oh, I want to  buy a certain product, a certain item.” And they say, “Oh, I’m sorry. It’s out of st ock,” meaning we don’t have any left to sell.  

In the story, the person buying the headphones has a choice of shipping and “shipping” (shipping) means sending the package – t wo ways – that they can have the package sent to them. A “package” (package ) is the box or whatever it is that you are buying, they put it in something, a nd then they ship it or mail it – send it to you. So, there are two possibilities, on e is standard shipping and another is expedited shipping. “Standard shipping” is the normal or regular shipping and here in the United States, if you buy on an Internet store, standard shipping is usually something that takes five to se ven days for you to get it – that would be standard shipping. “Expedited shipping” (e xpedited) – “expedited” – that’s when you are going to pay more money and the y will send it faster. They will use a faster way of sending it to you. So, it again, used in  the United States as an example, we have a service called “priority m ail.” “Priority mail” means that you’ll get it in two or three days instead of five to seven days. You can also have something sent overnight with a special service. An d the service or cost, of course, more money  – that is expedited shipping. 

Well, the person here clicks the continue button, m eaning they decide what they want for shipping and then they fill in or type in,  put in, their shipping address and their billing address. The “shipping address” is, o f course, where you want the company to send your product, to send your package,  your item. The “billing address” (billing) – “billing address” – that’s whe re, if you are paying by a credit card, for example, that’s where you get your credit  card bill. And when you buy something on the Internet, in the United States at least, the company that is selling you the item, they will check electronicall y, to make sure that you have the  

correct address for your credit card. And if you pu t in the wrong address, then it will reject your credit card. So, if you buy someth ing and you live in the United States or Canada and you buy from a store in the Un ited States or Canada, you have to put a correct billing address. If you buy i nternationally, for example, if you are in Japan and you want to buy something from a s tore here in the United States, there is, I don’t think any way that most o f the companies can check your address. So, it’s a little less important but you s till have to put in a billing address.  

Well, the person in the story types in their billin g address and they click the “purchase” button. And “to purchase” (purchase) mea ns to buy. When they buy it, they get a confirmation page. And the “confirmation  page” just says, “Yes, you bought this.” It’s proof that you bought this item on our store. And you will often get a “tracking number.” A “tracking number” (track ing) number – two words – that is a number that you can track or check your p ackage to see where it is and the major mail services in the United States delive ry services – companies that will deliver or send you a package. You can put in a number. They give you a number that you can then type into the computer – i nto the Internet and it will tell you where your package is and if it is going to arr ive at your house or business on time, on the right day. So, it’s a way of findin g out about where your package is and how long it will take to get to you – that’s  a tracking number. 

Well, let’s listen to the story again, this time at  a native rate of speech. 

[start of story] 

It's true that I don't like shopping. When I want t o buy something, I do it online. I like buying on the Internet because I can easily do  some comparison shopping and find the best price. It's easy, too. 

Last week I wanted to buy some new headphones. I di d a search and found a pair on sale at a store in New Jersey. I read the p roduct description and knew that this was the right one. I added it to my shopp ing cart and I was ready to check out. The screen showed that I had one item in  my basket and that it was in stock. I had a choice of shipping and I picked stan dard shipping for $5.95, rather than the expedited shipping for $12.95. I clicked t he "continue" button and filled in my shipping address and my billing address. Then , it took me to the payment screen and I typed in my credit card number and exp iration date. I clicked the "Purchase" button and I was done. I got a confirmat ion page with a tracking number. I checked the next day and it showed that m y item had already been shipped.  

Buying on the Internet is perfect for someone like me. Now, if only finding a girlfriend was just that easy. 

[end of story] 

Our script today was written by Dr. Lucy Tse. We th ank her for her work.  

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hanks for listening. We’ll see you next time on ESL Podcast. 

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. This podcast is copyr ight 2006.

