# Business Websites

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 248: Business Websites.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode number 248.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  On this episode, we're going to talk about vocabulary related to websites and setting up a business website.  As usual, first we'll listen to the dialogue at a slow speed, then the explanations, and finally, listen to the dialogue again at a normal rate of speech.  Let's get started.  > I was hired to set up a website for a small bookstore and the owner knew very little about the Internet.  I tried to find out what she wanted for her business website.  Octavio:  Let me show you some websites I’ve designed.  I have them all bookmarked.  Okay, this is a website for a restaurant.  As you can see, the homepage is fairly simple.  The menu bar on the left-hand side allows visitors to navigate around the site.  Margaret:  I like this layout a lot.  Why are these words in a different color?  Octavio:  Those are hyperlinks to other pages on the website.  If you click on the text or the image, you’ll be taken to a different page.    Margaret:  Oh, I see, so for my site, I can list the books I have for sale, and we can hyperlink each book title to a description of that book.  Octavio:  Yes, that’s right.  You’ll probably also want a search function so that people can type in the name of a book or the author to find out if you carry a specific book.    Margaret:  Yes, definitely.  Does it matter which browser customers use to look at my website?  Octavio:  No, I’ll make sure that it’s compatible with all of the major browsers out there. 