# The Stock Market

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 276: The Stock Market.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 276.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and download the Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  We're going to be talking in this episode about the stock market, where people buy and sell stocks, which are, basically, a small percentage of the company that you own.  We're going to listen to a conversation between Paul and Heather that uses some of the common vocabulary you would read about or hear about when talking about the stock market.  Let's get started.  > Heather:  What’s the matter?  You look terrible.  Paul:  Haven’t you seen the paper?  The stock market went down a lot yesterday.  The NASDAQ is down 100 points and the Dow is down 30!  My portfolio is in big trouble.  Heather:  I knew you had some stock options in this company, but I didn’t know you were so heavily invested in the market.    Paul:  I’m invested in the bond market, in derivatives, and I have shares in a lot of companies that took a nosedive yesterday.    Heather:  I’m sure you have a good stockbroker who has made sure that your portfolio is diversified and you have different kinds of securities.  Paul:  That’s my problem.  I don’t have a stockbroker.  I decided to invest on my own and to go for less secure stocks hoping for a better return.  I thought I could tell the difference between a bear and a bull market as well as the brokers.  I guess I was wrong. 