# The Comedy Club

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 242: The Comedy Club.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 242.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  We have some new things on the website, which we think you will be interested in and, of course, you can download our Learning Guide for this episode as well as take look at our new ESL Podcast Store.    Our episode is called “The Comedy Club.”  Let's go!  > On Friday night, I went with a group of friends from work to a comedy club.  I don’t really like sketch comedy, but I do like stand-up, and the comedian who was going to perform there was one of my favorites.    There were six of us and we were a pretty rowdy group.  We stood in line outside, and when we got to the box office window, we paid the cover charge.  The hostess showed us to a table right next to the stage and told us that there was a two-drink minimum.  She took our drink orders and we waited for the opening act.  The first comic told a lot of political jokes and most of them fell flat.  In fact, some of the people seated in the back started to boo him and he got off the stage pretty quickly.  The MC came out and tried to get the hecklers to calm down by telling a few jokes of his own, and that did the trick.    The headliner finally came out and the crowd went crazy, clapping and cheering.  He did some very funny improv and had us rolling in the aisles.  I can’t remember the last time I laughed so hard!
  Our episode is called “The Comedy Club.”  We use this word, club, in a couple of different ways.  When someone says, “I'm going to the club,” they could mean that they are going to a dance club, which is a place where you can dance, often 