# Time Management

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 272: Time Management.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 272.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, sample sentences, additional vocabulary we don't talk about on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Time Management.”  It's going to talk about something we all need to do, which is figure out how we're going to spend our time every day.  Let's get started.  > Ruby:  I’m snowed under with work!  I can’t seem to keep up with everything I have to do.  You’re always so organized and efficient.  How do you do it?  Ian:  I’m not always organized and efficient, but I’ve gotten better since I read a book about time management.  I use a few tools that the book recommends, which help me to plan and to keep track of deadlines.    Ruby:  Do you think it would help me?  Ian:  Definitely.  This is what I do.  I keep a to-do list of all of the things I need to do.  Then, I decide which tasks are high-priority and which have low-priority.  I write down the deadline I’m given for the task or I assign a deadline of my own, and I make a note of the most urgent tasks.    Ruby:  That seems pretty simple, but how do I keep track of the progress I make on a task?  Sometimes things just slip through the cracks for me.    Ian:  I do a couple of things.  First, I keep my list updated.  I check off or cross off those that I’ve done.  I also put reminders for myself on my computer to help me with scheduling.  It helps me to remember my appointments and to allocate my time better. 