# Characteristics of an Ideal Mate

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 245: Characteristics of an Ideal Mate.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 245.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our new ESL Podcast Store.  There are several good premium courses there we think you may be interested in, both business and personal English.  Of course, you also want to download the Learning Guide for this episode that gives you all of the words, definitions, cultural notes and a complete transcript of this episode.    The topic of this episode is “Characteristics of an Ideal” - or perfect - “Mate.”  A mate, “mate,” is someone that you are boyfriend or girlfriend or husband or wife with.  We're going to listen to a conversation between two people talking about what they would look for in the perfect boyfriend or girlfriend.  Let's get started.  > I’ve been trying to set up my good friend, Rachid, with one of my single girlfriends, but I still wasn’t too sure what his type would be.   Tamara:  So, tell me what you’re looking for in a woman.  Rachid:  She has to be rich and hot!  Tamara:  Come on!  Be serious.  Rachid:  Okay, okay, but I don’t know why married people are always trying to get their single friends married off.  Is it because misery loves company?    Tamara:  Stop being a smart aleck and answer the question.  Rachid:  All right.  I’m being serious now.  What do I look for in a woman?  I’d like someone who has a good sense of humor, someone who is kind-hearted and easy to talk to, and is supportive of me.    Tamara:  What about vital statistics?  Age, physical type? 