# Buying Stamps at the Post Office

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 274: Buying Stamps at the Post Office.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 274.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our premium courses.  These are additional courses that you may be interested in.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode on our website.  This episode is called “Buying Stamps at the Post Office.”  Let's go!  > Clerk:  Can I help you?  Tamika:  I’d like to buy some stamps.  Clerk:  In what denomination?  Tamika:  I’m not sure.  I need them for sending regular letters and for Priority Mail.  Clerk:  The current rate for sending a first-class letter is 41 cents.  With first-class service, your letter will get there in three to seven days for domestic mail.    Tamika:  For the first-class stamps, how many come in a book or a roll?  Clerk:  There are 20 in a book and 100 in a roll.  To send a Priority Mail envelope, you can get $4.05 stamps, and delivery is usually in two to three days.  How many would you like of each?    Tamika:  I’ll take one book of the stamps and four Priority Mail stamps.  Can I buy stamps to send an Express Mail envelope, too?  Clerk:  You can.  Those are $14.40 each.  Tamika:  Could you add one of those, too?  And how much is it to send a postcard?  I don’t need any stamps for those today, but I’m just curious. 