# A Workers Strike

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 252: A Workers Strike.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 252.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com to download the Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations, cultural notes and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Workers Strike.”  We're going to hear a conversation between Masako and Salvador talking about whether they should have a strike at their workplace.  A strike is when the workers refuse to work in order to get more money or other benefits.  Let's get started.  > Masako:  I think we should strike.  We need to force management to listen to our grievances.  Salvador:  Hold on.  I think you’re being too hasty.  It’s up to our union to call a strike, not the workers.  Masako:  I’m not suggesting a formal strike, but we could organize a sickout.  That would send a message that we mean business.  Salvador:  Yeah, but that may also get their backs up.  We need to give collective bargaining a chance to get us the contract we want.    Masako:  The union has been negotiating for two months and things have stalled.  We need to do something to put pressure on the company to come to our terms.  At the very least, we should picket outside the building.    Salvador:  We should only do that if there’s a strike.  We don’t want to make employees feel like they’re crossing the picket line every time they come to work.  That would be bad for morale.  Masako:  Nobody’s going to feel like a scab if they all know why we’re picketing.  Let’s call a meeting and see what everyone else thinks. 