# Going on a Diet

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 291: Going on a Diet.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 291.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some interesting premium courses.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our episode is called “Going on a Diet.”  Let's get started!  > Decima:  My scale at home can’t be right.  I weighed myself this morning and I’ve gained another five pounds since last month!      Sebastian:  You’re not the only one.  My pants are feeling tight and it’s getting harder to see my feet!  Decima:  Okay, I’m making a decision right here, right now.  I’m going on a diet, and I’m going to do whatever it takes to shed these extra pounds.  Right after work I’m going to the drugstore for some diet pills.    Sebastian:  You’ll want to take it easy with those pills.  My wife took some diet pills last year and she did lose some weight, but she gained it right back.  She found it was better to eat right by getting plenty of fruits and vegetables, and to eat more low-fat protein and fewer empty carbs.  The truth is, she had been yo-yo dieting for years until she changed her diet and started exercising.    Decima:  Oh, no.  Not exercise.  I hate exercising.  I’d rather fast than go to a gym.    Sebastian:  That’s how I feel, but I’m starting to come around to my wife’s thinking.  Working out helped her with her 30-pound weight-loss earlier this year and she’s kept it off.  I may follow her example so I can get rid of these love handles.  Decima:  What kind of exercise are you thinking about? 