# Getting a Traffic Ticket

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 267: Getting a Traffic Ticket.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 267.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Check out some of the new things on our website, including our ESL Podcast Store.  You can also download the Learning Guide for this episode.    This episode is called “Getting a Traffic Ticket.”  It will be a conversation between a police officer and a person who was driving too fast.  Let's get started.  > I was driving down the street when I saw a police car behind me.  Suddenly, it turned on its siren.  I realized that I was being pulled over.  Officer:  Can I see your driver’s license, registration, and proof of insurance?  Ray:  Sure.  Here you are, officer.  Officer:  Did you know that you were speeding?  You were going 70 in a 55 mile an hour zone.    Ray:  I was?  No, I didn’t know.  Officer:  You also ran a red light and your brake light is out.  I see that your tags have also expired.  I’m going to have to cite you for all of that.  Ray:  I’m sure I didn’t run a red light, and I didn’t know my brake light wasn’t working.  I just renewed my registration and I’m still waiting for my new tags to arrive in the mail.  Is there any way I can get away with just a warning?    Officer:  I’m afraid not.    Ray:  What’s the fine for all of those violations? 