# Critiquing Someone¡¦s Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 244: Critiquing Someone’s Work.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 244.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com, and download the Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, additional definitions, cultural notes and a complete transcript of this episode.    Our episode is called “Critiquing Someone’s Work.”  We'll hear a conversation between two people talking about a third person's work and how it has to be improved.  Let's get started.  > Noriko:  Have you had a chance to look over Russ’s project?  Walt:  Yeah, I took a look at it yesterday.  If you have a couple of minutes, I can give you my two cents.  Noriko:  Sure.  Shoot.  Walt:  Well, it’s not what I envisioned when we gave him the charge to come up with a new design for the brochure.  The cover isn’t bad, but I’m not crazy about the rest of it.    Noriko:  Why?  What don’t you like?  Walt:  Well, I think Russ is off the mark to feature our older products, rather than our new ones.  When I saw what he had come up with, I thought he was out in left field.  We told him to focus on the latest products, didn’t we?  Noriko:  Yes, we did tell him that.  I haven’t had a chance to look at the brochure closely myself, but I plan to this afternoon.  So you think it needs work, huh?  A lot of work?  Walt:  Let’s just say that there’s a lot of room for improvement.  I’d be happy to meet with him to give him my comments, if you think that would help. 