# Offending Someone

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 282: Offending Someone.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 282.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations that you don't hear on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Offending Someone.”  “To offend someone” means to make them feel bad or to say something that they don't like.  We'll hear a dialogue between Eileen and Colin, talking about a joke that one of them thinks is offensive.  Let's get started.  > I was telling my friend, Gina, a joke.  I began it by saying, “An Irishman, an Englishman, and a Frenchman walk into this bar, and…”  Suddenly, Gina grabbed my arm and shook her head.  I turned around and our coworker, Colin, was standing right behind me.  Eileen:  Oh, hi Colin.  I didn’t see you standing there.  Colin:  I guess you didn’t.    Eileen:  I was just telling Gina a joke...  Colin:  Yes, I know.  I heard.  I can’t believe you’re telling off-color jokes, especially at work.    Eileen:  I’m really sorry.  Please don’t be offended.  I didn’t intend to insult you.  I know that you’re from Ireland.  It was just a joke.  Colin:  It may be just a joke to you, but it’s getting a little old to me.  I already have a tough time fitting in as an outsider in this company, and I’m really tired of being the butt of jokes around here.  Besides, ethnic jokes reinforce stereotypes. 