# A Movie Collection

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 285: A Movie Collection.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 285.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our episode is called “A Movie Collection.”  Movies are, of course, a very important part of Los Angeles culture.  Today we’re going to talk about someone who collects movies, and all the different vocabulary related to that.  Let’s get started.  > Some people collect stamps.  Other people collect CDs.  I collect movies.    I’m a film buff and I have a collection of my favorite movies of all time.  I usually buy a movie when it comes out on DVD, even if I’ve seen it already on the big screen.  I have a high definition TV and I like watching movies in the comfort of my own home.     I prefer the widescreen editions and the DVDs with a lot of bonus features.  I pride myself on finding every Easter egg on every DVD I own.  My friends think I’m crazy.  Even if I already own a movie, I’ll buy it again if there’s a special edition or box set with extra bloopers or deleted scenes.    Even when I’m on vacation, I look for DVDs.  Last year, I was traveling abroad and I bought some DVDs.  When I got home, though, I found out that I couldn’t play them in my DVD player because they had a different region code than the one we use in the U.S.  I also bought a bootleg DVD on the street and the quality was terrible.  I really learned my lesson on that trip!
  This episode is about someone who collects movies.  “To collect” means to get many of that particular thing because you like to have many things.  For example, people collect stamps; they try to get different stamps from different countries and put them all in a book.  Other people like to collect CDs, different types of music. 