# Questions About a Product

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 255: Questions About a Product.  This is ESL Podcast episode 255.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com for more information about this podcast, and for our Learning Guide for this episode.    This episode is called “Questions About a Product.”  We're going to hear a conversation between Paul and the clerk of a - an electronics store, and they're going to be talking about a particular machine and questions, and how to ask questions about electronic machines.  Let's get started.  > Paul:  Could you help me?  I have a few questions about this computer printer.  Clerk:  Sure.  I’ll try.    Paul:  What I’m wondering is whether this machine can be used as a copier as well as a printer.  Clerk:  Yeah, it can.  This is a multifunction machine.  It can be used as a printer, copier, and a fax machine.    Paul:  Can you show me how that works?    Clerk:  Well, it’s pretty straightforward.  Just hook it up to your computer and you can use it like any other printer.  If you want to make copies, just put the document on the glass or in the feeder and press this button.     Paul:  That seems pretty simple.  How do I use it as a fax machine?    Clerk:  Just put the document in the feeder like you would for copying, but instead of pushing the “copy” button, press the “fax” button.  Make sure it’s hooked up to a phone line, of course.  Paul:  Okay.  I think I’ve got it.  Does this model come with a warranty? 