# A Restaurant Drive-Thru

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 283: A Restaurant Drive-Thru.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 283.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Go to our website at eslpod.com to find out more about this podcast.  You can also see a transcript of the dialogue by clicking on the name of the podcast.  If you want a complete transcript, you can download the Learning Guide for this episode.  More information is available on the website.  This episode is called “A Restaurant Drive-Thru.”  A “drive-thru restaurant” is one where you are in your car, and you get your food in your car.  Let's get started.  > I had a little time between appointments and stopped at a fast food restaurant to get some lunch.  The idea was to save time by using the drive-thru, but it didn’t work out that way.  Order-taker:  Welcome to McDenny’s.  May I take your order?  Daniel:  Yes.  I’d like a cheeseburger, an order of French fries, and a large soda.  Order-taker:  I’m sorry, sir.  Can you speak up and speak directly into the microphone?  I can barely hear you.    Daniel:  Oh, okay.  I want to order one cheeseburger, one order of fries, and a large soda.    Order-taker:  That’s four hamburgers, an order of French fries, and a sundae.  Would you like anything else?  Daniel:  No, I mean, yes.  That order isn’t right.  I wanted one cheeseburger, one order of fries, and a soda.  Order-taker:  No problem, sir.  There’s no need to shout.  I can add those to your order.  That’s four hamburgers, one cheeseburger, two orders of French fries, a 