# Finding a Book at a Bookstore

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 257: Finding a Book at a Bookstore.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 257.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    If you visit our website at eslpod.com, you can download a Learning Guide to this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, the definitions, additional sample sentences of the words we use, additional explanations of the words we use, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  We also have a ESL Podcast Store that has some additional premium courses that you may be interested in.  Our dialogue today is about a customer going into a store, talking to one of the employees at the store, and asking him where certain kinds of books are.  He's in a bookstore, of course!  Let's get started.  > Clerk:  Can I help you find something?  Adrian:  Yes.  Can you tell me where the non-fiction books are?  Clerk:  Are you looking for hardbacks or paperbacks?  Adrian:  I’m not sure.  I think hardbacks.  Clerk:  Well, the non-fiction new releases are at the front of the store.  The non-fiction section is behind the fiction shelves on your right.  The hardbacks are on the top shelves and the paperbacks on the bottom ones.  Is there a specific book I can help you find?  Adrian:  I’m looking for an old book and I’m not sure of the title.  It’s something like, “The Literary Crisis.”  Clerk:  Do you know the name of the author?    Adrian:  No, I don’t.  I saw it mentioned online and I actually wrote down the ISBN, but I can’t find it now. 