# Long Distance Relationships

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 221, “Long Distance Relationships.”  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 221.  I am your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan.  I am coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and look at the Learning Guide for this episode.  It's a 10-page guide to the podcast that gives you the complete transcript, all the vocabulary, additional vocabulary, cultural notes and a free trip to Hawaii.  Okay, well, everything except the free trip to Hawaii, I promise!  Today's podcast is called “Long Distance Relationships.”  Sounds like fun, let's go!  [Start of story]  I met Diana last year when we were both working in New York City for the summer.  I’m finishing college in California and Diana started her first job in Florida.  Talk about a bicoastal relationship!  We spent three great months together and we’ve been trying to maintain a long distance relationship ever since.  It’s been really hard and I had a talk about it with my friend, Emily, who just got out of a relationship like this.  Enrique:  I’m always worried that for her, it’s out of sight, out of mind.  Emily:  I know what you mean, but is it that way with you?  Enrique:  No, not at all.  I think about her all the time.  It’s not that there aren’t temptations, but I’m committed to Diana.    Emily:  Don’t you get the same vibe from her?  Enrique:  Sometimes I do, but a lot of times I don’t.  It’s so easy to get into a fight on the phone.  We have misunderstandings all the time or I hurt her feelings without realizing it.  And plus, I’m still in school and she’s already out working, and it seems like we’re growing apart. 