# Bad Manners at a Business Lunch

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 296: Bad Manners at a Business Lunch.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 296.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations, cultural notes, a comprehension quiz, and a complete transcript of this episode.  You can also get free tickets to Hawaii in the Learning Guide.  Those are bus tickets, however!  In this episode, we're going to listen to a conversation between Yolanda and Sunan talking about a lunch they had and one of their coworkers (one of their colleagues) who had very bad manners (who did not behave very well).  Let's get started.  > Yolanda:  I will never invite George to another business lunch with clients again!  Sunan:  Why, what happened?  Yolanda:  George has the worst manners of anyone I know.  First of all, he was ten minutes late.  And as soon as he sat down, his cell phone rang and he answered it!  Sunan:  Maybe it was an important call?  Yolanda:  From his girlfriend?  It was completely unprofessional.    Sunan:  I know George is a little rough around the edges, but he’s not that bad.  Yolanda:  You don’t think so?  After I introduced him to the clients, he told them that he had been up late the previous night, because one of our other account representatives didn’t finish her proposal and he had to complete it.  Everyone knows not to air their company’s dirty laundry in public, especially in front of clients. 