# A Friendly Rivalry

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 284: A Friendly Rivalry.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 284.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  If you click on the name of this episode, you can see the script for the dialogue in this episode.  If you want a complete transcript, with all of the definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, additional definitions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on the podcast, you can download one of our Learning Guides.  This episode is called “A Friendly Rivalry.”  A “rivalry” is like a competition between two people.  And we're going to listen to a dialogue between Veronica and Bogdan about a rivalry at work.  Let's get started.  > Veronica:  I’m finishing up for the day.  Do you want to walk out together?  Bogdan:  Yeah, that would be great, if you don’t mind waiting until I’ve finished sending this email.  I’m letting Tom know that I got another account.  That makes four new customers this week.  Veronica:  Congratulations, but isn’t that rubbing Tom’s nose in it?    Bogdan:  Don’t worry about Tom.  He’s been getting new clients left and right.  For the past six months, he’s been gloating about his big commissions.  I’m just turning the tables, that’s all.    Veronica:  Tom doesn’t seem like the type to be smug about his successes.  Bogdan:  He doesn’t flaunt it, but he lets people know in subtle ways.  Don’t worry.  I’m going to put him in his place.    Veronica:  This is just too much testosterone for me.  Why don’t you guys just go outside, duke it out, and get it over with. 