# Business Insurance

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 292: Business Insurance.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 292.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is a eight to ten page PDF file that contains all of our vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations of vocabulary that we don't discuss on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Business Insurance.”  It's a dialogue between a business owner and one of his employees about a problem that they had at work and the importance of having insurance.  We're going to talk about different vocabulary related to insurance.  Let's get started.  > Carson:  What happened here?!    Samantha:  As you can see, there was an accident.  Early this morning, a man driving along this street lost control of his car and ran into the front window of our store.  Luckily, no one was hurt.  Carson:  What are we going to do?  We can’t open for business with this mess.  There’s glass everywhere!  Samantha:  I think the first thing to do is to call the insurance company.  We have full coverage, so I’m sure we’re insured against accidents of this kind.  As long as our policy hasn’t lapsed and we’ve paid our annual premiums, I don’t think we need to worry too much.  Carson:  Not worry too much?  But what if this is considered an act of God and we’re not covered?     Samantha:  Believe me, this will be covered.  When we call the insurance company, I’m sure they’ll tell you that. 