# Working Overtime

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 240: Working Overtime.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 240.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com.  There you will find the Learning Guide for this episode that contains all the vocabulary, definitions, additional definitions, culture notes and a complete transcript of this episode.  You'll also find, at our website, our new ESL Podcast Store, where you can download special courses as well as our new “English Through Stories Mystery.”  This episode is called “Working Overtime.”  Let's get started.  > Jeremy:  Hello.  Miranda:  Hi, it’s me.  I can’t make it home for dinner tonight.  I’m working overtime.  Jeremy:  Again?  That’s the third time this week.  I can’t believe your boss is making you do this.  Miranda:  Don’t get mad, but I actually told him that I didn’t mind.  I know I’ve been working long hours, but I don’t want to turn down the work.  You know that I’m getting paid time and a half, and we need the money.  Jeremy:  I know we do, but we’re getting by.  What happened to a 40-hour workweek?  You’ve been working at least 60.  It’s not worth it for you to work your fingers to the bone no matter how strapped we are.  Miranda:  I know.  I know.  It’s just that morale around this place is pretty low and I’m just trying to do my part.  Just don’t gripe.  Okay?  Jeremy:  I’m not griping.  I’m just worried about you.  You come home after a long day, and you’re overworked and emotionally drained.  That’s not fair to the kids. 