# Looking for Ideas

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 256: Looking for Ideas.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 256.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.    Remember to visit our website at eslpod.com for more information about this podcast and for a Learning Guide to this episode.  Our topic today is called “Looking for Ideas.”  It is a conversation between two people, Sam and Ling, who are talking about new ideas for their company.  Let's get started.  > Ling:  Ugh!     Sam:  What’s the matter?  Ling:  I’m trying to jot down some ideas for the meeting tomorrow but I’m drawing a blank.    Sam:  When I’ve got a block, I usually step away from it for a while and come back to it later.  Then I can look at it with a fresh perspective.    Ling:  I don’t have time to take a break.  I need to come up with something quick or I’ll have to go into that meeting empty-handed.  I can’t let Danielle show me up again.  At the last meeting, all of the department heads loved her ideas and they’re starting to think she walks on water.    Sam:  Well, I don’t think it helps to sit around worrying about it.  Nothing will come to you if you work yourself up too much.    Ling:  You’re right.  I’m too wound up to think straight.  It’s like my brain is in a fog.    Sam:  Come on.  We’ll go take a quick walk.  I’m sure that’ll do the trick.  If it doesn’t, I’ll help you work on your resume. 