# A Soccer Match

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 275: A Soccer Match.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 275.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com to download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional vocabulary not talked about in the podcast, as well as a cultural note, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Soccer Match,” what in most countries of the world would be called a “football match.”  Let's get started!  > Shandy:  Oh, that player just hit my boyfriend!  Did you see that?  That was definitely a penalty.    Giuseppe:  No, I didn’t.  I was watching the goalie.  The referee isn’t doing anything.    Shandy:  I can’t believe it.  Why isn’t the coach talking to that referee?  I’m sure the other player deliberately kicked Fabio with his cleats.  Giuseppe:  Hey, look!  Fabio has the ball and he’s taking it all the way down the field.  He shoots, he scores!  That’s his second goal of the game.  He’s going to win the game for the team.    Shandy:  What’s he doing now?  Why is he on the ground?  Is he hurt?  Giuseppe:  I don’t know.  The trainer is helping him off the field.  It doesn’t look serious.  Shandy:  That’s good, but he hates sitting on the bench.  He won’t want to watch the rest of the match from the sidelines.    Giuseppe:  Look at the stands over there! 