# Being Alike and Different

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 343: Being Alike and Different.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-four-three (343).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California, the home of Hollywood; the home of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, and George Clooney – and Lucy Tse!  If you’d like to visit our website, you can go to eslpod.com.  While you’re there, you can take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional business and personal English courses you may be interested in.  This episode is called “Being Alike and Different.”  It’s a dialogue between Fabian and Clarissa; their dialogue is about different personalities.  It’s going to give you a lot of good vocabulary to talk about someone’s personality.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Fabian:  Oh, your babies are adorable.  They’re like two peas in a pod.  Clarissa:  They may look like mirror images of each other, but they’re nothing alike.  They each have their distinct personalities.  Randy likes to sleep during the day and Dominic likes to sleep at night.    Fabian:  That’s like my babies at home.  They’re polar opposites.  They don’t like eating the same foods and they have clashing personalities.    Clarissa:  Oh, really?  Does that cause problems?  Fabian:  Yes, sometimes it does.  One is playful all the time and the other one is always pensive.  They get on each other’s nerves more often than not.  I can’t believe they have the same parents.  Clarissa:  You’re telling me!  I sometimes wonder how two babies born at the same time can be so different.    [barking sound]  Oh, my precious little babies are hungry.  We’d better get home so they can eat. 