# Finding the Right Wine

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 326: Finding the Right Wine.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 326.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and while you’re there download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of this episode.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional premium courses for business and daily English.  This episode is called “Finding the Right Wine.”  Let’s get drinking!  [start of dialogue]  Antonio:  Why are we stopping here?  Melanie:  We can’t go to the dinner party empty-handed.  We need to bring a bottle of wine.  Antonio:  I don’t know anything about wines.  You’ll need to pick a bottle.  Melanie:  I don’t know much about wines, either.  I just know we need a good table wine.  Do you think we should get a bottle of white, red, or rosé?  Antonio:  I don’t know.  Melanie:  The label on this one says that it’s fruity and not too tart.  This other one says that it’s full-bodied, but I think we want a light-bodied one, right?  Antonio:  I have no idea.    Melanie:  The label on this one says that it’s from a California vineyard.  Is that good or bad?    Antonio:  I don’t know.  Stop asking me.  Here’s a corkscrew.  Why don’t you take out the cork and we’ll have a taste? 