# Star-crossed Lovers

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 339: Star-crossed Lovers.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 339.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com, and on it you can download a Learning Guide for this episode; an 8 to 10 page guide to help you pick up English even faster.  You can also go to our ESL Podcast Blog, where a couple times a week we have additional information to help you improve your English.  This episode is called “Star-crossed Lovers.”  The expression “star-crossed lovers” usually refers to two people who are in love, but the situation – the circumstances prevents them from really being together.  Let’s take a listen to the dialogue between Romeo and Juliette.  [start of dialogue]  Romeo:  What do you plan to do?  Juliette:  I don’t know!  I can’t defy my parents.  They’ve been against our relationship from the start, and I’ve been forbidden to see you.    Romeo:  It’s your life, not theirs.  It’s time you stood up to them and told them what you want.  I’m tired of being a puppet in the feud between your family and mine.    Juliette:  That’s easy to say, but I can’t confront my father and tell him that I want to be with you.  It would kill him!    Romeo:  No, it won’t.  He’s using guilt to get you to give me up.  Don’t let him manipulate you that way.    Juliette:  This is tearing me apart.  I can’t take it much longer.    Romeo:  You won’t have to.  I’m leaving – without you.    Juliette:  No!  You can’t.  I can’t live without you. 