# A Routine Procedure

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 379: A Routine Medical Procedure.  This is ESL Podcast episode 379.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  We have a website.  Oh yes, we do!  You can visit it at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode, which contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  If you’re looking for a way to improve your English even faster, take a look at our Learning Guide on the website.  This episode is called “A Routine Medical Procedure.”  Something that is “routine” means it is common; it is not complicated or particularly difficult, something you do all the time.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Julia:  Aren’t you nervous about your surgery next week?  Hugh:  No, it’s a routine procedure.  I don’t even need to be admitted overnight.    Julia:  But aren’t you going under general anesthesia?  It’s not the same as local anesthesia, you know.  Hugh:  Yes, I know.  This is an out-patient procedure.  If the doctors don’t think I can go home the same day, they’ll just keep me under observation.    Julia:  All the same, there may be complications.  Hugh:  It’s supposed to be a low-risk procedure.  If there are post-op problems, I’m sure the doctors will take good care of me.  Julia:  But what if they release you too early from the hospital.  I’ve heard that these days doctors are under pressure to free up beds as soon as possible. 