# A Fist Fight

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 359: A Fist Fight.  This is ESL Podcast episode 359.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take look at our ESL Podcast Blog and our ESL Podcast Store, with some additional courses in business and daily English.  This episode is called “A Fist Fight.”  Your “fist” (fist) is your hand when you put the fingers and the thumb together against the palm of your hand.  It’s what you do if you are going to hit someone or punch someone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Isabella:  What are you doing?!  Why are you trying to hit that guy?  Tony:  He deserves it.  He insulted you.  I’m going to knock his block off!  Isabella:  Stop it!  Be civilized.  This isn’t some free-for-all.  You can’t punch a guy just because he said something offensive.  Tony:  Oh, yes I can.  Let me at him!  I’m going to clobber him.  Isabella:  If you take another swing at him, he’s going to have you arrested for assault.  Get a hold of yourself.    Tony:  I’m just trying to defend my sister’s honor.  What’s wrong with that?  Isabella:  Nothing, but violence isn’t the answer.  Let’s get out of here and cool off a little.    Tony:  All right, but if I ever see that guy again, he’ll get what’s coming to him.  Isabella:  Okay, okay, let’s go.  You said he insulted me.  What did he say?  Tony:  He said you had nice legs.  The nerve of that guy! 