# Corporate Sponsorship

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 324: Corporate Sponsorship.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 324.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guides contain all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Corporate Sponsorship,” about when a company decides to give money to help an organization.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Travis:  I don’t know how we’re going to keep our free sports program going without more funding.  As it is, we’re strapped and I don’t know how we’re going to continue.  Megumi:  I know you’ve been resistant in the past, but what about corporate sponsorship?  I’m sure we can find some businesses that want to support us.  Travis:  I know you’re trying to help, but I’m not willing to sell out.    Megumi:  It’s not selling out to have sponsors.  Some businesses really want to keep public programs like ours free and available to the public.  Being a benefactor is their way of helping us do that.  In exchange, those companies get more exposure and enhance their public image.  It’s a win-win for everyone.  Travis:  Don’t get me wrong.  I’m not trying to get on a high horse about sponsorship, but I don’t want product placement, business signage, and outright advertising at our games.  It sends the wrong message to the kids in the program.    Megumi:  I don’t think it’s an all-or-nothing idea.  You can limit the kinds of sponsorship you accept.  Just don’t throw out the baby with the bath water.  You know, it may be our only option. 