# Dishonesty at Work

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 328: Dishonesty at Work.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 328.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Each episode of ESL Podcast comes with a 8 to 10 page Learning Guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Dishonesty at Work.”  “Dishonesty” is someone who is not honest – who lies at work.  We’ll listen to a dialogue between Shane and Amina over some problems with one of the employees at work.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Amina:  Have you heard the latest news?  Shane:  No, what is it?  Amina:  Charlie was fired last Friday after the company found out that he had been cooking the books for over six months and had embezzled more than $50,000.  Shane:  Charlie?  I don’t believe it!  He is the most upstanding person I know.  I can imagine him stretching the truth now and then, but he’s the last person I would think of as being truly dishonest.  I would never think to question his integrity.    Amina:  It wasn’t greed that made him do it.  His wife has been ill and he couldn’t pay the medical bills.  I think he had the best of intentions in trying to get his wife the healthcare she needed, but it was only a matter of time before he got caught, no matter how well he covered his tracks.  Shane:  Well, I know he’s a bad liar and he’s not known to make mistakes, so I’m not surprised that someone caught on pretty quickly when there were 