# Dietary Restrictions and Preferences

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 390: Dietary Restrictions and Preferences.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 390.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode, which will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Dietary Restrictions and Preferences.”  It’s a dialogue between Tony and Carmela.  “Dietary” refers to what you eat, so the conversation will be about different types of food – different things that people can’t eat because of their particular preferences or medical restrictions.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Tony:  Who did you invite over for dinner Saturday?  Carmela:  I invited Keith, Sung, Stephanie, and Luis.  Tony:  You didn’t!    Carmela:  I did.  Why?  Tony:  You’re going to have a hard time cooking for them.  Keith is a vegan and only eats food that’s organic.  Sung is lactose intolerant and his doctor put him on a low-salt diet.  Carmela:  Really?  I didn’t know.  How do you know so much about their diets?    Tony:  I went on a trip with them and I’ll never do it again.  We could never agree on a restaurant.    Carmela:  What about Stephanie and Luis?  Tony:  Stephanie is a health nut, and doesn’t eat anything with saturated fat, added sugar, or artificial flavors.  She also doesn’t eat red meat.  And Luis, he can only eat gluten-free kosher foods. 