# Going to Happy Hour

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 369: Going to Happy Hour.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 369.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences using those new vocabulary words, additional explanations, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Going to Happy Hour.”  “Happy hour” is a period of one to two hours, sometimes three hours, normally after work.  So, between 4:00 and 7:00 or 5:00 and 8:00 at night where bars and restaurants often offer cheap drinks and cheap food to get people to come after their work and have a drink and eat.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Gary:  Hey, over here.  I’m glad you could make it.  This place has a great happy hour.  Let me get the waitress, Brenda, so we can order our drinks.  Shanise:  Hi, Gary.  You sound like a regular.  Do you come here a lot?  Gary:  Yeah, I like stopping by on my way home now and then to wind down.    Shanise:  Is there another barstool?  Gary:  Oh, sorry.  Let me get another one for you.  Have a seat.  What will you have?  Shanise:  I’ll have a scotch, straight up.  I usually don’t drink very much.  Alcohol sometimes doesn’t agree with me.  I’ve had a tough day, though, and I need to loosen up.    Gary:  Okay, one scotch coming up.  Here comes the waitress.  Okay, that’s one scotch for Shanise and a draft beer for me.  On second thought, bring a pitcher of the draft beer, would you?  Thanks, Brenda. 