# Buying a Jacket or Coat

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 321: Buying a Jacket or Coat.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 321.  I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can take a look at our premium courses, courses on business and daily English to help you learn English even faster.  In this episode we’re going to go shopping.  We’re going to buy a jacket or a coat, and discuss the vocabulary related to those items.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Michael:  Mom, I don’t need a new coat.  I like my old trench coat.  It’s comfortable, and I can use it as a raincoat and an overcoat.  So what do I need a new coat for?  Lisa:  If you’re going to visit your aunt in Maine, you’ll need something warmer than a trench coat.  This parka is nice.  Michael:  I’m not wearing a parka.  If I’m not warm enough, I’ll wear my denim jacket under my trench coat.    Lisa:  That’s ridiculous.  You can’t wear a jacket and a coat each time you go outside.  Look, this down coat will keep you nice and warm.  It has a high collar, a hood, and thick cuffs, and it’s very roomy so you’ll be very comfortable in it.  Michael:  It’s too long.  I don’t need a knee-length coat.    Lisa:  Yes, you do.  You’ve never been in really cold weather and when you get there, you’ll be thankful to have something so warm.  Now, we also need to buy you a blazer.    Michael:  A blazer?  What for?   Lisa:  Your aunt is probably going to take you to some nice places and I don’t want you to look like a bum.  See?  This one is nice and fitted. 