# A Mid-life Crisis

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 311: A Mid-life Crisis.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 311.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has some exciting new business and personal English courses for you.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “A Mid-life Crisis.”  It’s a dialogue between a wife and a friend talking about the woman’s husband and how he is going through something we call a “mid-life crisis.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Bella:  I think my husband is going through a mid-life crisis.    Russell:  What makes you think that?  Bella:  He just traded in his car for a very expensive sports car, and he’s filling the house with gym equipment.  Russell:  Uh oh, that’s a bad sign.  Do you know what may have triggered this?  Bella:  I’m not sure, but he was passed over for a promotion at work a couple of months ago, and his new boss is 15 years younger than he is.    Russell:  That would do it.    Bella:  What really worries me is that he’s been talking about quitting his job altogether and becoming a full-time writer.  He always wanted to become a successful writer.  Russell:  That’s sounds familiar.  When my brother went through a mid-life crisis, he spent a lot of time reflecting on his life and regretting giving up music to get a full-time job.  He saw himself as being washed up and he was fed up with everything. 