# Learning How to Drive

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 386: Learning How to Drive.  This is ESL Podcast number 386.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional courses in daily and business English.  This episode is called “Learning How to Drive.”  It’s a dialogue between Xavier and Brandy, and it includes a lot of vocabulary you would use in talking about driving a car.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Xavier:  Look out!  Put your foot on the brake!  Brandy:  I am braking.  Xavier:  No, your foot is on the gas pedal!  Brandy:  Oh.  There’s the brake.    Xavier:  You just took 10 years off my life.  I was sure you were going to hit the median or the railing.  I didn’t know what I was getting into when I agreed to teach you how to drive.    Brandy:  Relax.  I’m really getting the hang of this.  Shifting gears isn’t as hard as I thought it would be, it’s cool to parallel park, and driving in reverse is fun!  Xavier:  Would you please keep your hands on the steering wheel, instead of playing with the radio?  Keep your eyes on the speedometer and stop using the rearview mirror to look at yourself.  Brandy:  And you stop working yourself into a tizzy.  I’m a fine driver.  Xavier:  I don’t think those people you’re about to hit would agree with you. 