# Different Work Styles

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 312: Different Work Styles.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 312.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  If you go to our website at eslpod.com, you can download a Learning Guide to this episode to improve your English even more.  The Learning Guide contains all the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions of words we use on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  We also have some other new, exciting parts of the website, so take a look at that if you haven’t visited recently.  Our topic today is “Different Work Styles.”  We’ll go over some vocabulary you can use to describe people’s work habits and the sorts of things that they do at work in terms of the way (or the style or manner) in which they work.  Let’s get started.  > Before I started my new job, I didn’t know that I would be working so closely with another employee of the company.  I was used to a lot of autonomy in my last job, and I have always been self-directed.  I didn’t need close supervision and the boss never had to worry about me slacking off.  To tell the truth, I was a little apprehensive about working in a team after having had so much independence.  To my surprise, though, I liked the collaborative environment and I think I actually do better work because of it.    Of the two of us, Delilah is the creative one.  While I’m a little adverse to risk, Delilah is always challenging the status quo.  She often has good ideas, and because I’m pretty resourceful, we often find a way to put those ideas to work.  Delilah has great follow-through, too, and I never need to worry that things will fall through the cracks.    I think the key to our success in working together is that neither one of us tries to exercise authority over the other.  We respect each other’s abilities and we know when to take charge and when to back off.  If you had told me a year ago that I would be working in a team environment and enjoying it, I would have told you 