# Arriving for an Appointment

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 300: Arriving for an Appointment.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 300.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using each of the words in a different sentence, additional explanations of vocabulary that we don’t talk about on the podcast, cultural notes that help you understand U.S. culture better, a comprehension check, and a complete transcript of every word we use on this podcast.  This podcast episode is called “Arriving for an Appointment.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  I arrived a little early for my sales appointment with the office manager of Lyon Industries, and spoke to the receptionist.    Juri:  Hello.  I’m here for my 11:30 appointment with Sue Gibbons.    Receptionist:  What is your name?  Juri:  It’s Juri Lakoff.  Receptionist:  I’ll let her know that you’re here.  [Speaking into the telephone]  Sue, this is Rhonda.  Your 11:30 appointment is here.  Should I send him up?  Okay, I’ll do that.  [Hangs up the telephone]  Ms. Gibbons says that she’s running a little late and is tied up in another meeting right now.  She should be wrapping things up very quickly and will be free in a few minutes.  Would you like to wait in the reception area right over there?    Juri:  Sure.  No problem.  Receptionist:  Can I get you something?  Coffee or tea?  Juri:  No, I’m fine.  I was just wondering how many employees you have in this office. 