# Asking About Business Hours

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 376: Asking About Business Hours.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 376.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  When you’re there, you can download a Learning Guide to this episode, an 8 to 10 page guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, new sample sentences using the words that we describe and discuss on the podcast.  You’ll also find comprehension questions, cultural notes, additional explanations of vocabulary not found on the audio portion of this episode, and a complete transcript of everything we say.  This episode is called “Asking About Business Hours.”  It’s a telephone conversation between Karin and a man who owns a store, and she asks about their hours of business.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Store owner:  Hello.  Karin:  Hello, is this Joe’s Shoe Repair?  Store owner:  Yes, how can I help you?  Karin:  I’m calling to find out your business hours.  Store owner:  We’re open 24/7.  Karin:  Really?  You’re open 24 hours a day, seven days a week?  Store owner:  Yes, we are, more often than not.  Of course we close for major holidays.  Karin:  Is that all?  Store owner:  We also close the first and third Monday and every other Sunday of each month, except the fourth Sunday, when we’re always open 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., unless we have extended hours. 