# Finding a Bargain

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 355: Finding a Bargain.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 355.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  There you can download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Finding a Bargain.”  It’s a dialogue between Manuel and Georgia about Georgia’s trip to the store.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Manuel:  Wow, I’ve never seen so many shopping bags in my life.  I can guess where you’ve been.  Georgia:  I did go overboard a bit today.  I went to the outlet mall and I found some real bargains.  Nearly everything was discounted.  I was in shopping heaven!  Manuel:  I can see that.    Georgia:  My favorite store had reduced prices for all of its sweaters, so I bought five.  They were already on sale, but the store knocked another $5 off the price.  I got them at half-price!  I was going to buy three, but the store had a special offer: If you buy four, the fifth one is free.    Manuel:  But doesn’t that mean you spent more money, since you bought five sweaters when you only wanted three?  Georgia:  How could I resist?  They were being sold at bargain basement prices.  At another store, the sale items were two for the price of one.  I’ve never seen things in that store so cheap.     Manuel:  Where are you going now?  Georgia:  I’m going back to the outlet stores, of course.  I just came home for a little breather.  There’s more shopping to be done! 