# Dealing in the Black Market

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 396: Dealing in the Black Market.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 396.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and you can find a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page PDF file that you can download, and use to improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Dealing in the Black Market.”  This is something that happens in most countries, I think, where people buy and sell things that they aren’t paying taxes on, or perhaps might even be illegal.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jasinda:  Was that your friend Mitch?  Thomas:  Yeah, he and I had lunch today to talk about some business opportunities.  Jasinda:  What line of work is he in?  Thomas:  Well, I guess you could say he’s in the import/export business.  Jasinda:  Hmm…Why are you being so shifty?  Isn’t his business on the up and up?  He doesn’t deal in the black market, does he?  Thomas:  Let’s just say that he takes full advantage of a free market and there’s nothing wrong with the gray market.  Jasinda:  You’re not telling me he deals in stolen goods, are you?  Thomas:  No, no, nothing like that.  Don’t be so naive.  There is an entire underground economy in this country, which serves an important purpose.  It gets people what they want.  Jasinda:  Is he a smuggler?  Does he deal in counterfeit or pirated goods?  Is that it? 