# Office Competition

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 340: Office Competition.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 340.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide that contains all of the vocabulary, sample sentences, additional definitions that we don’t discuss on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Office Competition.”  We’re going to listen to a story that uses a lot of vocabulary you might find in discussing a competition, or a contest, or when one person tries to do better than someone else.  Let’s get started.  > Okay, everybody.  Listen up.  We’re approaching the end of the month.  Unless you’re new here, you know that we are in competition with our rival, the East Coast office, to have the most sales this period.    At the beginning of the month, we pulled ahead and it looked like we were finally going to turn the tables and defeat the East Coast office.  But after the first 10 days of this month, we fell into a tie with them, and as of last Friday, we are still neck and neck.    We’re now coming up to crunch time and the last thing we want is to fall behind when it looks like we may be able to top the East Coast office for the first time in two years.  I’m really proud of this office for outdoing itself to get us in a position to win, and there’s no reason we should suffer another loss now.  Okay, everybody, let’s put our noses to the grindstone and pull out this victory!
  Our story begins by the boss, who is speaking here, saying to everyone “Okay, everybody,” he’s getting their attention.  He’s getting them to stop talking perhaps, and listen to him.  He then says, “Listen up.”  “To listen up” is an informal way of telling people to pay attention, to listen to what you have to say. 