# Trash and Recycling

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 393: Trash and Recycling.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 393.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional explanations, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Trash and Recycling.”  It has become popular in many countries, including the United States, to try to reuse certain things – to recycle certain things – to help protect the environment.  We’ll listen to a dialogue between Rajid and Nicole talking about recycling.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Rajid:  What are you doing?  Nicole:  I’m putting my garbage into the garbage can.  Why?  Rajid:  Don’t you recycle?  You’re supposed to separate out your recyclables and put them in a separate bin.    Nicole:  I know, I know, but who has the time?  I don’t have that much trash anyway.    Rajid:  Oh, yeah?  The dump is full of food containers that aren’t biodegradable from people who didn’t have the time.  Nicole:  Come on.  Don’t blow things out of proportion.  It’s not like I’m going to save the environment all by myself.  Rajid:  No, you’re not, but if everybody thinks the same way you do, we’re going to use up all of our natural resources.  Nicole:  When did you turn into an ecologist?  I don’t see you conserving energy.  You have your lights on all night.  I can see them through your window. 