# Surfing the Internet

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 358: Surfing the Internet.  This is ESL Podcast episode 358.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download the Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page guide we provide for all of our current episodes that gives you a complete list of the vocabulary words, definitions, new sentences using these words that you will learn on this episode, comprehension questions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Surfing the Internet.”  It’s a dialogue between Isaiah and Nancy about surfing the web.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Isaiah:  Aren’t you supposed to be working?  Nancy:  I just thought I would take a break and surf the web a little.    Isaiah:  You’d better be careful which sites you visit.  You know that Big Brother is watching.  Nancy:  The boss told us that, but I don’t believe it.  They’re not going to care if I read a blog or check out a forum once in a while.  Isaiah:  That may be, but I would suggest clearing your history and your cache after you do that.  You never know when someone is going to be checking up on you.  Nancy:  Listen, I’ve installed plug-ins and downloaded programs I’m not supposed to onto this computer, and I’ve never gotten into trouble.  I think the boss is just using scare tactics to keep us from messing around when we’re supposed to be working.  Isaiah:  Like I said, you can dig your own grave if you want to.  Vivian was shopping on the Internet on her work computer a couple of weeks ago, and some questionable pop-ups opened when she moved to a new tab.  She didn’t notice 