# Using the Restroom

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 346: Using the Restroom.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 346.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from – where else? – beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  Our website is eslpod.com.  On it you can find a Learning Guide for this episode that you can download to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also find our ESL Podcast Blog, where several times a week we give you additional help in learning English, and our ESL Podcast Store, where we have business and personal English courses for you to purchase.    This episode is called “Using the Restroom.”  A “restroom” is another name for a bathroom – a public, usually, bathroom, where you have toilets and sinks and so forth.  Let’s get started.  > Denzel:  Excuse me, where is the restroom?    Server:  It’s down the hall, on your left.  Denzel:  Thanks.  When I got into the bathroom, it was a mess.  I walked into a stall and there was toilet paper all over the floor.  There were no toilet seat covers and the toilet wouldn’t flush.  Even the toilet seat was broken!    I gave up on the stall and decided to use a urinal.  I went to wash my hands, but there was no soap in the dispenser.  I kept hitting the pump, but nothing came out.    When I turned on the faucet, water splashed all over my pants.  I looked for some paper towels to dry myself, but they were out.  I tried using one of the hand dryers, but that was broken, too.    I couldn’t believe what a mess this bathroom was.  I just thought, what happened here?  World War III? 