# Reading Comic Books

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 337: Reading Comic Books.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 337.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can download the Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where several times a week we put up some additional information to help you learn English.  We also have an ESL Podcast Store, where you can buy some of our specialty courses in business and daily life English.  The topic for this episode is “comic books,” things that are written with words and pictures.  We’ll talk a little bit about comic books in the United States during our discussion, and who reads them, and who doesn’t.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Lee:  What are you reading?  Stan:  It’s a graphic novel.  Lee:  Graphic novel?  You mean a comic book?  I thought you were too old for that sort of thing.  Stan:  For your information, this is a graphic novel and it’s a literary art form.  Graphic novels are written for mature audiences, not kids.  Lee:  Really?  I don’t know anything about comic books.  I like reading the comic strips in the newspaper, but I’ve never read an entire comic book before.  Stan:  You might want to check these out.  Look at this bound collection, for instance.  It has a storyline that’s as complex as a novel, and each panel is a work of art.  Lee:  It is pretty impressive looking.  I’m not that interested in superheroes, though. 