# Watching the TV News

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 381: Watching the TV News.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 381.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  The Learning Guide has all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension checks, culture notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Watching the TV News.”  We’re going to listen to two people on the television giving us the news.  It will give us a chance to talk about some of the special vocabulary you may hear when listening or watching the news.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Anchor:  Good evening.  I’m Gary Singh and this is the evening news.  Tonight, we’ll have a special report from our field reporter, Monique Sanders, on the latest developments in the Eddie Litton court case.  And in our feature segment, we’ll go to Arizona to interview the world’s fattest dog, weighing 210 pounds!  We’ll also have this week’s weather and the latest on sports.  But first, our top story: A man suspected of murdering his business partner led the police on a high-speed chase through downtown this afternoon.  Reporting live from downtown Los Angeles is Tanisha Gray.  Tanisha?  Tanisha:  Thanks, Gary.  About three hours ago, the police cordoned off a half-mile area around City Hall after the suspect ran into one of the City Hall offices and took two women as hostages.  After a nearly two-hour standoff, the suspect surrendered.  Neither of the two women was hurt and the suspect is now in police custody.  Back to you, Gary, in the studio.    Anchor:  Thanks for that report, Tanisha.  We’ll have more for you as this story develops.    [end of dialogue] 