# Taking Vitamins and Supplements

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 349: Taking Vitamins and Supplements.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 349.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  If you go there, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8 to 10 page PDF file that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural notes, winning lottery numbers, and a complete transcript for this episode.  This episode is called “Taking Vitamins and Supplements.”  It’s a story about how I go to the doctor, and the doctor tells me to take some pills to help me.  Let’s get started.  > The last time I went to the doctor for a checkup, she told me that I needed to start taking some dietary supplements that had the vitamins and minerals that my body needed to stay healthy.  I told her that I ate a balanced diet, but she said that many people who generally ate well still didn’t get the nutrients their bodies needed every day, and that’s why she recommends taking a multivitamin.  I remember taking chewable vitamins when I was a kid, but as an adult, I never thought I needed it.  It wasn’t because I had any signs of deficiency, she said, but that it was better to be safe than sorry.    I asked if it was possible to overdose on over-the-counter multivitamins, and she said that it was highly unlikely if I followed the recommended dosage.  She said that most people’s bodies are able to tolerate and absorb the multivitamins without any problems.  As I get older, she said, it’s all the more important to take care of myself.  She’s right, of course.  I shouldn’t neglect my health.  I just wonder if I can find some of those chewable vitamins in the shape of my favorite cartoon characters.  I may be an adult, but I don’t always have to act like one!
 