# At the Convention Center

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 344: At the Convention Center.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 344.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful, but today a little rainy, Los Angeles, California.  You can visit our website at eslpod.com.  While you’re there, take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has additional premium courses you may be interested in.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.    This episode is called “At the Convention Center.”  We’re going to go to a conference, or a convention.  I’m going to talk about typical vocabulary associated with going to a professional conference.  Let’s get started.  > I left my hotel early so I would arrive at the convention center in time for my presentation, but the bad traffic made me late.  My presentation was supposed to start at 2:00 and it was already 1:55!  To make matters worse, I had never been to this convention center before and I didn’t know my way around.  I walked into the foyer and looked around.  I was hoping to see a registration booth or the speakers’ room, where I was sure someone could point me in the right direction.  I walked down one hallway and found the main ballroom, but it was empty.  I saw a sign for meeting rooms upstairs and went up the escalator.  But when I got to the second floor, I didn’t see anyone around.  I looked over the landing, hoping to get my bearings, but that was no help.  By this time, I was sweating bullets.  The clock was ticking and I was late!    Then, I woke up.  It wasn’t the first time I had a nightmare like this, and I knew it wouldn’t be the last.  I wonder what my subconscious is trying to tell me?  At least this time, I was wearing my pants!
  Our story begins when I say “I left my hotel early so I would arrive at the convention center in time for my presentation.”  A “convention center” is a large building that is used for large group meetings.  There’s usually a place for people 