# Micromanaging the Staff

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 320: Micromanaging the Staff.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 320.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our new ESL Podcast Blog, where you can get the latest news from ESL Podcast on the things we’re doing, as well as comments and ideas from Lucy and me.  While you’re on our homepage, you can also download a Learning Guide to this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not talked about on the podcast, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Micromanaging the Staff.”  It’s a dialogue between Barry and Jane about how you should manage, or how you should supervise other people.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Barry:  Where are you going?  Jane:  I’m checking up on Rudy.  I gave him a task an hour ago and I want to make sure he’s doing it right.  Barry:  You’re not micromanaging again, are you?    Jane:  Of course not.  I’m only going to observe his work and make sure that he’s following the detailed instructions I gave him.  Barry:  That sounds like micromanaging.  If you’re always looking over their shoulders, how are you ever going to develop trust with your employees?  Jane:  My employees will earn my trust by being meticulous with their work.  Good employees don’t mind me monitoring their progress.    Barry:  That may be true, but I heard Rudy and Jena talking and they said they’re feeling a little resentful that you don’t have more faith in their ability.  They feel like you’re treating them as though they’re incompetent. 