# Rooms in a House

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 323: Rooms in a House.  This is ESL Podcast episode three-two-three (323).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some business and daily English courses we think you’ll enjoy.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where you can get news and additional English by going to our website each day.  This episode is called “Rooms in a House.”  It is, of course, going to talk about the different parts of the house and what is in the different parts of the house, some useful daily vocabulary.  Let’s get started.  > I don’t like cats.  That’s not really true.  I like cats, but they don’t like me.    Last week, my friend Sara asked me to babysit her cat for two days while she was out of town.  Normally, I would have said no, but she was in a jam, so I said okay.  As I said, cats don’t like me.  When I got home from work, I couldn’t find her.  I was sure she was hiding from me.  I looked all over the house.    I started with the bedrooms, looking in the closets and under the bed.  I looked in the bathroom and even behind the shower curtain.  I went downstairs and searched the basement.  No cat.  Next, I looked all over the living room, checking under the couch and behind the TV.  I also looked in the pantry and then the laundry room, thinking that the cat must be hiding behind the washer or dryer.  Still, no cat.  Finally, I looked in the kitchen.  There was the cat.  She was sitting on the counter.  Somehow she had managed to open a box of cookies and there she sat eating them all.  When the cat saw me, she started mewing.  I don’t speak the language of cats, but I could have sworn that she was asking me for some milk!
 