# Washing Clothes

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 331: Washing Clothes.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 331.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Download a Learning Guide, while you’re there, for this episode.  Take a look at our ESL Podcast Store that has additional premium courses in business and daily English that we think you’ll be interested in, and read our new ESL Podcast Blog.  This episode is about something everyone has to do, or have done for them, and that is washing your clothes.  It’s a dialogue between Mina and Arlo about using a washing machine.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Mina:  What happened here?  Is the washing machine not working?  Arlo:  What do you mean?    Mina:  Why are all of your white T-shirts now pink?  Arlo:  That just happens.  Sometimes they turn pink, gray, or another color, depending on which clothes I put in a load.  Mina:  Didn’t anyone teach you how to do laundry?  You’re supposed to separate your whites from your colors and wash them separately.  Arlo:  It doesn’t really matter.  I don’t mind if they get dyed a different color.  As long as they get clean and the stains come out, I don’t really care what color they are.  Mina:  I have some bleach that may be able to get your T-shirts white again.  I better try before you put them in the dryer.    Arlo:  Don’t bother.  It really doesn’t matter to me.  I’m almost done here.  I’m just waiting for one more load to finish. 