# The Seven-year Itch

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 345: The Seven-year Itch.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 345.  I’m your host...guess who?  Dr. Jeff McQuillan, that’s right, from Los Angeles, California – I should say beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  I’m feeling good today!  Be sure to visit our website at eslpod.com, where you can download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides are 8 to 10 page PDF files that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences using our new vocabulary in different context, additional explanations of words that have additional meanings beyond what we talk about on this episode.  You’ll also find a cultural note, as well as some comprehension questions in the Learning Guide.  Again, go to our website for more information.  This dialogue is called “The Seven-year Itch.”  It’s about how husbands and wives sometimes separate or divorce because the man wants to find a new partner.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sunny:  Did you hear the news?  Nancy and Brian are splitting up.    Igor:  How long have they been married?    Sunny:  Eight years.  I’m sure it was the seven-year itch.  I bet Brian was unfaithful to Nancy.  Igor:  How do you know?  Maybe it was Nancy who had a wandering eye.  Sunny:  Maybe, but it’s a shame.  They were such a nice couple.  Doesn’t anyone take marriage vows seriously these days?  To me, it’s a lifelong commitment.  Igor:  If you ask me, I think our notion of marriage is out of date.  Conventional wisdom is that everybody wants to be unfaithful after they’ve been married a few years.  Why not make marriage a short-term arrangement?  In my view, a marriage should last for seven years unless you want to renew.  If you don’t, you each go your separate ways. 