# Formatting a Document

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 308: Formatting a Document.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 308.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Be sure to visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  Our Learning Guides contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the podcast, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “Formatting a Document.”  It’s about making a document on your computer with something like Microsoft Word.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Franz:  I’ve just switched over to this program and I can’t figure out how to format my document.  Can you help me?  Helen:  I can try.  Let’s take a look.  What do you want to do?  Franz:  I want to change the margins so I can fit more on a page.  I don’t know how to change the default settings.  I also want to put this section on a separate page.  Helen:  Okay, you can adjust the margins by moving this up and down, and from side to side.  If you want this section on a separate page, just add a page break.    Franz:  Oh, I see.  What if I want to add a header or a footer?  Helen:  You go to this pull-down menu and select the header and footer option.  Then, you can type in the text you want.  If you want to add a page number, just insert one by selecting it from this menu.  Franz:  That seems easy.  What if I want to change the font?  Helen:  You can change the font style or size by selecting the text and then making the change on the toolbar.  See? 