# Describing People¡¦s Moods

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 325: Describing People’s Moods.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 325.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and take a look at our premium courses.  We have additional special courses in business and daily English we think you’ll be interested in.  You can also download the individual Learning Guide, an 8 to 10 page guide to this episode, on our website.    This episode is called “Describing People’s Moods,” the way people act or behave toward one another.  It’s a dialogue between Brett and Molly talking about different people’s moods.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Brett:  Do you know what kind of mood Mom is in?  Molly:  Not really.  Why?  Brett:  I really need a raise in my allowance and I’m waiting for the right time to ask.  She’ll be more likely to say “yes” if she’s not feeling too grouchy.  Molly:  I wouldn’t count on this being a good time.  She looked a little upset after getting off the phone with Aunt Teri.    Brett:  Why?  Molly:  Aunt Teri has been down in the dumps since Cousin Frank decided to take a job in Cambodia.  He’s on cloud nine about this new job, but Aunt Teri is anxious about him moving so far away.  Brett:  I see.  Well, I’ve got to think of some way to cheer her up.  It’s a lost cause if I ask her while she’s angry, on edge, or depressed.  Molly:  You know that Mom is always happy to hear good news about school.  Do you have anything new to report? 