# Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 314: Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 314.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com; there you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional daily English and business courses you may be interested in.  This episode is called “Buying a Digital Audio (MP3) Player.”  It’s a conversation between a man who works at a store and a woman who’s looking to buy (who’s interested in buying) an MP3 player.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Clerk:  Can I help you?  Sandy:  I’m looking for an MP3 player, but I don’t know a lot about them.  Clerk:  We have a large selection, as you can see.  Sandy:  Wow, I really don’t know where to begin.    Clerk:  What do you want to be able to do?  Sandy:  I just want something small and portable that I can use to listen to music that I rip from CDs.  I also want to be able to download songs off the Internet.    Clerk:  Most of the players you see here can do that.  One thing you have to watch out for is that some music websites are proprietary.  That means that you can only listen using certain types of players.    Sandy:  That’s what I’m worried about.    Clerk:  Well, this one plays music in a lot of different file formats and is compatible with most of the major music download sites, both proprietary and 