# A Management Dispute

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 360: A Management Dispute.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 360.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  To take full advantage – to get the most out of this podcast episode, go to our website eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page PDF file that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, and a complete transcript of this entire episode – every word we say.  That’s at eslpod.com.  This episode is called “A Management Dispute.”  A “dispute” is a disagreement.  We’re going to listen to a dialogue between Jeannie and Salih about a problem at their company – at their work regarding the “management,” or the people who are the bosses.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jeannie:  Have you heard about the new management dispute?  Salih:  No, what’s happening?  Jeannie:  Well, the CEO is having problems with the head of one of the subsidiaries.  Salih:  Which one?  Jeannie:  Lance Publishing.  Apparently, the head, Bill Riker, is saying that he and the CEO differ too much in their business philosophy and they can’t agree on a future direction for the company.  Salih:  I really hope they can settle their dispute soon.  It doesn’t do anybody any good to have so much hostility in the office.  Jeannie:  I hope so, too.  This company can’t afford to have another high-level departure.  We’ve lost so many good people already this past year. 