# Reporting a Stolen Car

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 377: Reporting a Stolen Car.    This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 377.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Did you know we have a website?  Yes, we do!  You can find it at eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has additional courses in English you may be interested in.  This episode is a dialogue between Kenji and a police officer, about his car that has been stolen.  Let’s listen.  [start of dialogue]  Kenji:  Hello, my car was stolen and I want to report it.  Officer:  Where was it when it was stolen?  Kenji:  It was parked outside of my apartment building.  I went outside this morning to drive to work, and it was gone.    Officer:  Okay, you need to fill out this form.  Put down the make and model of the vehicle, the year, and the color.  You’ll also need the license plate number.  Do you know the vehicle’s VIN number?  Kenji:  No, I don’t.    Officer:  That’s okay.  Just fill it out and we’ll launch an investigation.    Kenji:  What do you think the chances are that I’ll recover my car?  Officer:  That’s hard to say.  If it was stolen by some kids who wanted to take a joyride, they’ll abandon it afterwards and you may get it back in one piece.  If it was taken by professional car thieves, that’s a different story.  They usually strip the cars of their parts and sell them to chop shops.  You may not want your car back after it’s been stripped. 