# Describing Hatred and Anger

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 394: Describing Hatred and Anger.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 394.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Visit it and download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not found on the audio podcast, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of every word we say on this episode.  This episode is a dialogue between Danica and Neil about anger and hatred, some common vocabulary we use when we are angry with someone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Danica:  Calm down!  Stop throwing things!  Have you gone berserk?    Neil:  Calm down?!  Calm down?!  You don’t know what just happened.  Danica:  I’ve never seen you lose your temper like this before.  Take a deep breath and tell me what happened.    Neil:  Okay, you know that I like Samantha, right?  Well, I told Malik last week.  I just found out today that he’s dating her.    Danica:  Malik?  But he’s your best friend.  He wouldn’t do that.    Neil:  Do you think I’d be having a fit if I weren’t absolutely certain?  Danica:  How can you be so sure?  Did he tell you?  Neil:  He didn’t have to.  I saw him with Samantha together after work.  He had his arm around her!  I was ready to go off the deep end when I saw the two of them together. 