# A Movie Review

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 350: A Movie Review.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 350.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode.  That 8 to 10 page guide contains much information to help you improve your English even faster, including a complete transcript of this episode.  This episode is called “A Movie Review.”  It’s a conversation between Sally and Marcus about a new, exciting movie that they saw.  It includes a lot of vocabulary that you might read or hear about in a movie review.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Sally:  Did you see the new movie, The McQuillan Story?  I’m writing a movie review for the school paper.  Marcus:  I went to the premiere last week.  What did you think of it?  Sally:  I liked it.  I thought it was entertaining, although it wasn’t groundbreaking, by any means.  Marcus:  You thought it was entertaining?  I thought it was awful.  I almost walked out.  The acting was wooden and uninspired, and the direction was amateur.    Sally:  Aren’t you being too critical?  It was the director’s first movie and I thought his directorial debut wasn’t bad.  If there was a problem, it was with the screenplay.  Marcus:  Don’t get me started on the screenplay!  The story was so predictable and the dialogue was pretentious.  This movie is going to bomb for sure.  Sally:  Oh, I don’t know.  I think some people may enjoy it.  Marcus:  If you want to do your readers a favor, you’d tell them to skip this movie and save their money! 