# Hiding from the Police

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 334: Hiding from the Police.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 334.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  You can find there the Learning Guide for this episode, a 10-page guide that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript of this episode.  So, if you want to improve your English even faster, download the Learning Guide after you listen to this episode, or before you listen to this episode.  Of course, it’s a little late now since you’ve already started listening to this episode, but you get the idea!  Our episode is called “Hiding from the Police.”  To hide from the police is, of course, something you would do if you, perhaps, have done something wrong.  The vocabulary we’re going to talk about is the sort of vocabulary you might read in the newspaper about some crime that has happened.  Let’s get started.  > I read an article in the newspaper this morning about a man who had been on the lam for 12 years.  He was wanted by the police because they believed he had committed a murder.  But before the man could go to trial, he bolted and left the country.  He has been on the “Most Wanted” list in this state ever since.  How did he get away?  The police had confiscated his passport, but he wore a disguise and became a stowaway on a ship heading for China.  While on the boat, he kept out of sight and was holed up in the cargo section of the ship the entire time.  No one even had an inkling that he was on the ship!  When the ship arrived in China, he got off and immediately assumed a new identity.  At first, he didn’t have any identification and he had to go underground, but eventually, he made enough money to buy a passport on the black market.    How did he get caught?  He tried to reenter the United States and the security officers at the airport saw that his passport was forged.  He was nabbed right away and he’ll be going to trial soon.  That is, unless he escapes!
 