# Setting the Table

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 317: Setting the Table.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 317.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com, and take a look at our premium courses.  We have additional business and daily English courses available in our ESL Podcast Store.  You also will want to take a look at our ESL Podcast Blog, where we have additional information and help in learning English.  And of course, you should download a Learning Guide for this episode to help you learn English even faster.  This episode is called “Setting the Table.”  It’s a dialogue about what you put on a table – a dinner table – so you can eat.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  William:  This is a very special dinner.  It’s not everyday that I have my bosses over for dinner.  It has to be perfect.  Martha:  I know.  Why do you think I took out our best china?  Instead of worrying, why don’t you help me set the table?    William:  Right.  I should make myself useful.  Is this the best tablecloth we have?  Martha:  Yes, it is.  It’s very fine linen.  William:  Oh, right, right.  Okay, we need six table settings.  That means we need dinner plates, salad plates, bread plates, coffee cups, and saucers.  Where are the saucers?  Martha:  All of the dinnerware is over there.  Be careful!  William:  I know, I know.  Where’s the silverware?  We’re missing the silverware!  Martha:  No, we’re not.  All of the silverware is in this drawer.  Put the dinner and salad forks on the left and the dessert fork above the plate, like this.  The tines should be facing up.  The knife and spoon go on the right. 