# Getting a Cold

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 389: Getting a Cold.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 389.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can download an 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode on our website.  The Learning Guide will help you improve your English even faster.  You get all of the vocabulary words, definitions, new sample sentences, additional definitions not talked about on the audio podcast, culture notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Getting a Cold.”  It’s dialogue between Walt and Irene.  Irene is getting sick; she’s getting a cold.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Walt:  What’s the matter with you?  Irene:  I have a bad cold.    Walt:  Why didn’t you stay home from work?  You’re probably contagious!    Irene:  I had no choice.  I have an important presentation this afternoon and I can’t play hooky.  Walt:  You can’t give a presentation in your condition.  Your nose is running, your eyes are red and puffy, your voice is hoarse, and you look like you’re running a fever.  Irene:  Gee, thanks.  I know I look terrible, but I’ll get through it.  I’m taking a nasal decongestant, I’m using eye drops, and I’m taking cough medicine and sucking on throat lozenges.  I should be better by the time of the presentation.  Ahchoo!    Walt:  Oh, geez!  You just sneezed all over me.  You’ve contaminated me for sure! 