# Cable and Satellite TV

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 307: Cable and Satellite TV.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 307.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Good morning, good afternoon, or good evening, depending on when you are listening to us.  Remember to visit our website – yes, we do have a website – at eslpod.com.  Take a look at our premium courses; these are special business and personal English courses that you might be interested in, in addition to our regular Learning Guide membership that we offer.  This episode is called “Cable and Satellite Television (or TV).”  It’s a dialogue between two people talking about the differences between these two ways of getting television service.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Marion:  I’m trying to decide whether to get cable or satellite TV.  Which one do you have at your apartment?  Cesar:  I have satellite, but I used to have cable.  Marion:  What’s the difference?  Cesar:  Not a lot.  With satellite, you have to have a satellite dish installed on the roof and you don’t with cable.  Otherwise, you get similar options.  You can get basic channels and choose from a lot of different premium channels.  I have a package that includes the basic channels and some premium movie channels, and I also have a sports package so I can watch all of the soccer matches I want.  Marion:  How much is the monthly fee?  Cesar:  I think I pay $59.99 a month, excluding the taxes and fees, but the basic service is probably cheaper.  When I had cable, I had to pay a deposit for the cable box, but with satellite, I had to buy the dish outright, but it wasn’t too expensive. 