# Talking About Prices

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 366: Talking About Prices.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 366.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com and download a Learning Guide for this episode. The Learning Guide is an 8 to 10 page PDF file you can download for all of our current episodes.  It gives you the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, comprehension questions, additional definitions and cultural notes, and a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is called “Talking About Prices,” when you buy and sell things, as well as some general vocabulary related to the economy.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Rosalba:  Can you believe these prices?  I know we’re in a recession, but the cost of everyday necessities shouldn’t skyrocket overnight.    William:  I think it has something to do with the shortage of produce.  I don’t know why I’m surprised that stores like this one try to gouge customers at the drop of a hat.  I guess it’s par for the course – anything to make a little extra money.  Rosalba:  You said it!  Even when there’s a good supply, the prices are never dirt cheap.  Any savings the stores get are never passed on to the customers.  William:  I have a mind to stop buying fruits and vegetables until the prices go down.  Rosalba:  You mean a boycott?    William:  Yeah, I won’t eat any fruits and vegetables until these high prices come down.  Rosalba:  How long do you think you can keep that up?  William:  I don’t know, but let’s find out! 