# Using the Telephone

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 363: Using the Telephone.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-six-three (363).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from beautiful Los Angeles, California, and the Center for Educational Development.  To learn more about this podcast and to download a Learning Guide for this episode, go to our website at eslpod.com.  This episode is called “Using the Telephone.”  We are going to talk about some common vocabulary related to the telephone.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Charles:  I don’t know how long this power outage is going to last.  Do you think we should call Elizabeth to tell her we’ll be late for dinner?  Jane:  That’s a good idea.  Do you know her phone number offhand?  Charles:  No, I don’t, and I can’t look it up in my address book or in the phone book without any lights.  Oh, wait.  I have it programmed into my cell phone.  I should be able to use speed dial to call her.  Oh, no.  Jane:  What’s the matter?  Charles:  My cell phone battery is dead.    Jane:  Maybe we can use the landline to call directory assistance.  The operator should be able to give us her number.  Charles:  I doubt it.  There must be more than one Elizabeth Bennett in our area code.    Jane:  You’re probably right, but I’ll try anyway.  Where’s the phone?  Oh, here it is.  Why aren’t I getting a dial tone?    Charles:  Try listening through the earpiece instead of the mouthpiece.  Jane:  Oh, right.  How do I dial 411 if I can’t see the keypad? 