# Quitting Smoking

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 333: Quitting Smoking.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode three-three-three (333).  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  How are you today?  In this episode we’re going to finally quit smoking – quit smoking cigarettes, that is.  If you want to find out more about the vocabulary and the ideas we talk about in this episode, go to our website at eslpod.com and download the 8 to 10 page Learning Guide for this episode.  You can also take a look at our new ESL Podcast Blog, and our additional premium courses in the ESL Podcast Store.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Vera:  Hi, I thought you might be out here.  Geez, it’s really cold!    Paul:  I know, but I really needed a smoke break after that long meeting.  Can I bum one off you?  I left my pack of cigarettes on my desk.  Vera:  Sure.  Here’s my lighter.  What do you think about the new incentives the company is offering to employees to quit?  Have you thought about it?    Paul:  Yeah, but I’ve smoked for 20 years.  I tried going cold turkey once, but it didn’t work.  I’m doomed to a lifetime of ashtrays and stained fingers.  Vera:  I’ve been butting heads with my boyfriend for years.  He wants me to quit, but I say, to each his own.    Paul:  The incentives are pretty good, though, I have to admit: a cash bonus and more money towards our health plans.    Vera:  Yeah, I could use the cash.  Have you tried one of those nicotine patches?    Paul:  No, I haven’t.    Vera:  Well...I’ll try it if you will.  Paul:  Do you think it would work?  I think I’m a lost cause. 