# Being Clumsy

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 485: Being Clumsy.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 485.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8- to 10-page PDF file we provide for all of our current episodes that will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Being Clumsy.”  “To be clumsy” means to be unable to control your body very well; you are always falling down or having accidents.  That’s being clumsy.  It’s a dialogue between Edward and Bella about being clumsy, about being someone who isn’t able to dance very well.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Edward:  Would you dance with me?    Bella:  Me?  I’d like to, but I don’t dance.  Edward:  Why?  Bella:  I have two left feet.  I’m so clumsy, first I’d step all over your feet, and then I’d stumble all over the dance floor.  Edward:  I don’t believe that.  I bet you’re very graceful on the dance floor.  You wouldn’t stumble; you’d glide across that floor.  Bella:  I’m the most uncoordinated person alive.  When I was little, I was even more awkward.  My mother hated taking me shopping because I was so accident-prone.  Everywhere we’d go, I was like a bull in a china shop.  I’m not like Rosalie.  Look at her.  She’s so elegant.    Edward:  Rosalie has nothing on you.  Dance with me and I promise to catch you if you trip.  Bella:  What if I step all over your feet? 