# Having Doubts About Getting Married

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 462: Having Doubts About Getting Married.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 462.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8- to 10-page PDF guide that gives you a complete transcript of this episode, as well as additional help in vocabulary, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a lot more.  This episode is called “Having Doubts About Getting Married.”  It’s a dialogue between Charlotte and Chris, which uses a lot of vocabulary that you might use in talking about someone getting married and someone who isn’t sure they should get married.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Charlotte:  What are you doing in here?  The entire wedding party is looking for you.  Chris:  Yeah, I know.  Charlotte:  Well, what’s the matter?  You’re not getting cold feet, are you?  Chris:  That’s just it.  I’m really having doubts about getting married.  What am I doing here?  I think I’m about to make the biggest mistake of my life!  Charlotte:  Whoa, slow down.  You’re just a little freaked out right now.  That’s understandable.  Just don’t do anything rash.  Chris:  I have an irresistible impulse to run.  I’ve got to get out of here!  Charlotte:  You’d better do some serious soul-searching before you decide to leave Kerry at the altar.  It would be a life-altering experience for her and for you.  She may never get over it.  Chris:  You’re right, but what can I do?  If I go through with this, I may regret it for the rest of my life. 