# Taking Chances in Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 4 76: Taking Chances in Business.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast number 476.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode, it will help you improve your English even faste r.

This episode is called “Taking Chances in Business.”  It’s a st ory that uses a lot of common vocabulary – business vocabulary in talking about investing and risking your money.  Let’s get started. > I’ve always been a pretty cautious investor.  I like my investm ents to be conservative and I usually invest only in sure things.  Recentl y, though, I’ve been tempted to take more risk.
> My friend, Bernie, is a very successful fund manager and he  is willing to let me get in on one of his schemes.  According to Bernie, he ha s a way to take advantage of the current economic climate so that he and  his investors aren’t susceptible to the same market forces affecting other investo rs.  Barring any significant changes to the current economy, I should be raki ng it in before the end of the year.
> Bernie isn’t someone who shoots from the hip, so if he sa ys that this investment is going to be profitable, who am I to ask questions?  I’m very tempted to throw caution to the wind and to take a chance.  After all, i t’s only money, right?

I begin our story by saying that I’ve always been a pretty ca utious investor. Someone who is “cautious” is someone who is careful, someon e who doesn’t take a lot of risks.  An “investor” is someone who buys some so rt of stock or bond or a financial instrument that allows you to make more m oney.  You can also invest in a business, you can invest in buying a building; t here are many different ways of being an investor.

 I say that I like my investments to be conservative and I only invest in sure things.  When we talk about an investment being “conservat ive,” we mean it is an investment with very little risk: something that is not risky,  something that will not likely lose money.  A “sure thing” is something that is gua ranteed to succeed, something that cannot go wrong, cannot fail.  The word  “sure” has a couple of different meanings in English; take a look at our Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

“Recently, though,” I say, “I’ve been tempted to take mor e risk.”  To “tempt” someone is to make someone want to do something because i t seems like a good thing.  If you see a very nice apple pie, somethin g that looks good to eat, you might say, “That pie is very tempting.”  It is tempti ng me; it makes me want to do something.  I’ve been tempted recently to take more risks.  A “risk” is a possibility that something bad might happen.  So it’s som ething that you do that could turn out to be good, it could turn out to be bad.

My friend Bernie is a very successful fund manager.  A “fu nd manager” is a person whose job it is to invest money for other people, to find ways of making money for other people.  This friend of mine, Bernie,  is willing to let me get in on one of his schemes.  “To get in on (something)” is to b ecome involved or to participate in something, especially something that isn’t  available to everyone and is just beginning.  “To get in on the ground floo r” is another expression similar to this, meaning to be part of something from the very beginning, especially some sort of business venture.  If you were sma rt and you bought stock in Google when they first went public – when they fi rst started selling stock, you got in on the ground floor; you got there at the beginning and benefited from their increasing wealth.  “To get in” has a couple of m eanings, however, in English, so be sure to take a look at the Learning Guide  for some additional explanations.  A “scheme” (scheme) is a plan to do somethi ng, especially a secret plan, a plan that might require a lot of thoug ht and creativity.  It’s often used in a negative way, however, but here it’s being use d as a positive thing.

According to Bernie, he has a way to take advantage of t he current economic climate.  “To take advantage of” is an interesting expre ssion here, because it can have two meanings.  One is, simply, a positive meaning, me aning to use an opportunity to do something: “I’m going to take advant age of the low prices for houses to buy a new home.”  You are taking that opportu nity and using it.  “To take advantage of someone (or something)” can also have a  negative meaning, meaning that you are doing something bad to that pers on, someone who is in a difficult situation or a situation that makes them weak o r open to attack, you are taking advantage of their weakness.  So, it can have both a positive and negative meaning.

 Bernie says he has a way to take advantage of the current e conomic climate. “Climate” normally refers to the weather, but it can a lso be used more generally to describe the current situation – the current condition , so “economic climate” here means the economic situation.  Bernie has a way to t ake advantage of the current (the present) economic climate so that he and hi s investors aren’t susceptible to the same market forces affecting other investo rs.  “To be susceptible” (susceptible) means to be affected by something in a negative way; “to be vulnerable” is another way of saying this.  For exa mple if you are very old and sick, you are susceptible to the flu.  You might be m ore damaged by – more hurt by a simple illness; you are susceptible.

The investors for Bernie’s scheme are not going to be susce ptible, he says, to the same market forces affecting other investors.  The “m arket” refers to the larger economy; it can also refer specifically to the sto ck market, which is a special place for buying and selling parts of ownership i n companies, what we call stocks.  “Forces” means influences, things that are aff ecting other things. So, “market forces” is the way that the market – the eco nomy interacts and affects prices and sales of things; “market forces” refers to the economic influences.

I say, “Barring any significant changes to the current econ omy, I should be raking it in before the end of the year.”  “Barring” means u nless something occurs or happens, unless something is true.  For example: “Barring  rain, they’ll have an outdoor wedding.”  That means if it doesn’t rain – assu ming it doesn’t rain. “Barring” is followed by whatever situation is going to cause a change or would cause a change in your plans: unless this happens.  “Barring  any changes in the economy, we are going to have a difficult year this year ( unless the economy changes, we are going to have a difficult year this year). ”  I say that barring any significant changes to the current economy, meaning unless some things change significantly, I should be raking it in before the end of the year.  To “rake (rake) it in” is an expression that means to make a lot of money ver y easily.  A “rake,” as a noun, is a tool that you use, for example, to gather leaves that fall off a tree. “To rake it in,” however, means to make a lot of money.

“Bernie isn’t someone who shoots from the hip,” I say.  T he expression “to shoot from the hip” means to be spontaneous, to do somethin g without thinking about it, without planning it.  It’s often used to refer to  someone who might talk without actually thinking, without knowing the answer, without co nsidering it seriously.  I say that Bernie is not someone who shoots from the hip, m eaning he’s someone who thinks about it, who doesn’t talk about something un less he knows about it. So if he says that this investment is going to be profitab le, who am I to ask

 questions?  Something that is “profitable” is something  that is going to make money, something that will have a very good economic eff ect.  I say that Bernie says this investment is going to be profitable, so who am I  to ask questions, meaning I should not doubt Bernie because I don’t know  as much as he does.

Finally I say, “I’m very tempted to throw caution to the  wind and to take a chance.”  The expression “to throw caution to the wind” means to stop being careful, not to be cautious, to take a risk.  “To take a chance” means to take a risk, to do something risky.  I am very tempted to throw c aution to the wind – to be not cautious, and to take a chance with Bernie’s scheme.   “After all,” I say, “it’s only money, right?” meaning it’s no big deal if I  lose a little money.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed. > I’ve always been a pretty cautious investor.  I like my investm ents to be conservative and I usually invest only in sure things.  Recentl y, though, I’ve been tempted to take more risk.
> My friend, Bernie, is a very successful fund manager and he  is willing to let me get in on one of his schemes.  According to Bernie, he ha s a way to take advantage of the current economic climate so that he and  his investors aren’t susceptible to the same market forces affecting other investo rs.  Barring any significant changes to the current economy, I should be raki ng it in before the end of the year.
> Bernie isn’t someone who shoots from the hip, so if he sa ys that this investment is going to be profitable, who am I to ask questions?  I’m very tempted to throw caution to the wind and to take a chance.  After all, i t’s only money, right?

Getting an excellent script is always a sure thing when i t is done by the author of today’s script, Dr. Lucy Tse.





