# Finding a Niche in Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 4 16: Finding a Niche in Business.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 416.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Lea rning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even fast er.

This episode is called “Finding a Niche in Business.”  It’s going to be the words of someone who is talking to a college class, a businessman, abo ut finding your particular area or specialization in the business world.  Let’s get started.

[start of speech]

Hello, business students.  I’m here today at your professor’ s request to talk to you about the importance of finding your own niche in b usiness.  Conventional wisdom says that people in business need to diversify their ski ll sets so that they can be the most flexible in whatever field they decide to  enter.  While there is some truth to this, that’s only half of the picture.

Those who diversify too much run the risk of being a jack o f all trades and master of none.  Not having a focused set of skills may also be see n as indecisive from the standpoint of a potential employer, and your appli cation may fall by the wayside as a result.  Having a niche will help you stand ou t in the crowd.

In business, it’s a balancing act between having the gener al skills that any company will want, and also possessing specialized skills that will make you the go-to person in your organization.  Keep this in mind a nd you’ll go far.

[end of speech]

We listened to a businessperson, a businessman, who is tal king to a college class.  He begins by saying, “I’m here at your professor’s req uest.”  When you say “at someone’s request,” you mean you are doing somethin g because someone asked you to do it.  So he is there because the pr ofessor asked him to be there.  He asked him to talk to the students about t he importance of finding their own niche in business.  A “niche” (niche) is a specia lty; it’s something that

 you can do better than other people can.  It’s something  that you are particularly good at.

“Conventional wisdom,” he says, “says that people in busine ss need to diversify their skill sets.”  The term “conventional wisdom” means so mething very similar to common sense, or what most people think and believe.  Conventional wisdom says that people in business need to diversify.  To “diversify”  (or “diversify”) means to have a lot of variety, to have many different kin ds of things.  They say that when you are investing your money for the future yo u should consider diversifying: putting a little money in stocks, a little mo ney in savings accounts, and so forth.  The noun for “diversify” is “diversity.”

He says that business conventional wisdom states that you nee d to diversify your skill sets.  A “skill set” (two words) is a group of things that you are able to do, things that you are good at.  It really just means the same as skills, but for some reason now in the business world people say “skill set” inste ad of just “skills,” things that you can do.

Why do you need this diversified skill set?  Well, conventio nal wisdom says that you need to be flexible in whatever field you enter.  T o be “flexible” means to be able to do different things – switch between different  things easily.  He says, “While there is some truth to this,” meaning this is par tially true, “that’s only half of the picture,” or half the picture.  “Half of the p icture” means you don’t have the whole idea; you have incomplete information.  You don ’t understand everything – the whole thing.  We would say “the whole picture.”  A  “picture,” of course, is something that you put on a wall.  It might be a pain ting by a famous artist – that would be a picture – Monet, for example, the famous F rench painter.  A “picture” can also refer to a photograph, but here it just refer s to the situation.

He continues by saying, “Those who diversify too much run the risk of being a jack of all trades and master of none.”  To “run the ri sk of something” means to do something knowing that there is a possibility that some thing bad will happen as a result.  If you drink alcohol and then you decide t o drive, you run the risk of hurting yourself and others in an accident.  The expression  “a jack of all trades and master of none” is an old expression to refer to peo ple who are able to do many things a little bit.  That is, they know a little  bit about a lot of things but they’re not very good at any one thing.  This is a critici sm – a negative statement about someone – if you say “She is a jack of all trades an d master of none.” “Trades,” here, simply means different skills.  “Master” wo uld be the person who is in charge, who is able to do a lot.  So, if you have too much diversity in your skill set, you may be a jack of all trades but master of non e.

 “Not having a focused set of skills may also be seen as indecisi ve.”  “Indecisive” means you can’t decide.  Again, it’s considered a negative  description, a criticism.  “He’s indecisive,” that means he can’t decide wha t he wants to do.  He says the person that diversifies, who doesn’t have a focused se t of skills, may be seen as indecisive from the standpoint of a potential emp loyer.  The expression “from the standpoint of someone” means from someone’s pr ospective, considering the way that someone will think about a par ticular situation.  We might also say from someone’s “viewpoint.”  So, from the  standpoint of the person who may be hiring you, the potential employer, t his is not a good thing. Because of this, your application may fall by the wayside a s a result.  To “fall by the wayside” (wayside – one word) means to not be used o r stop being used because there are too many other things – there are to o many other important things.  There may be certain things that you talk about at work but because you have many different projects, some of them fall by the wa yside, they are no longer important enough to consider talking about and doing something about them.

He says, “Having a niche will help you stand out in the cr owd.”  The expression to “stand out in the crowd” means to be different from  the people around you, to be different from other people, to be noticed.  If yo u have pink hair you will stand out in the crowd, people will notice you.  Because I d on’t have any hair I have to paint my head pink to get someone to notice me!

He continues, “In business, it’s a balancing act between h aving the general skills that any company will want, and also possessing specialized skil ls that will make you the go-to person in your organization.”  Couple of expressions there, the first is a “balancing act.”  A “balancing act” is when you try to  do two things at the same time, often two opposite things or two very differ ent things.  Or, you’re trying to make two different people happy that have two  very different ideas or interests.  This is a balancing act.  The word “balance” h as several meanings in English; take a look at our Learning Guide for some ad ditional explanations.

So, if you are applying for a job you need to have gene ral skills and “specialized,” or specific, skills.  You have to have specific skills – specialize d skills – to make you the go-to person in your organization.  The expression  “a go-to person” is the person in an office or an organization or business who see ms to know everything.  He or she is the person that everyone goes to when they need help or information.

“Keep this in mind and you’ll go far,” he concludes.  To  “go far,” here, means to succeed, to do well in life.  If someone tells you you’ll go far in life, well, that means you will be successful, and I hope you are.

 Now let’s listen to the speech, this time at a normal sp eed.

[start of speech]

Hello, business students.  I’m here today at your professor’ s request to talk to you about the importance of finding your own niche in b usiness.  Conventional wisdom says that people in business need to diversify their ski ll sets so that they can be the most flexible in whatever field they decide to  enter.  While there is some truth to this, that’s only half of the picture.

Those who diversify too much run the risk of being a jack o f all trades and master of none.  Not having a focused set of skills may also be see n as indecisive from the standpoint of a potential employer, and your appli cation may fall by the wayside as a result.  Having a niche will help you stand ou t in the crowd.

In business, it’s a balancing act between having the gener al skills that any company will want, and also possessing specialized skills that will make you the go-to person in your organization.  Keep this in mind a nd you’ll go far.

[end of speech]

The script for this episode was written by the go-to perso n here at ESL Podcast, Dr. Lucy Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan.  Than k you for listening.  Come back and listen to us next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and produ ced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan.  This podcast is copyright 2008 .

