# Going to the Playground

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 4 58: Going to the Playground.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 458.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode, which will give you all of the vocabulary, defin itions, new sample sentences with the new words that we talk about, additio nal definitions, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and a complete transcript  of this episode.

This episode is a story called “Going to the Playground.”  It’s going to introduce some common vocabulary you might use if you are on a pla yground, a place where kids play.  Let’s get started. > My wife was out of town on business and our nanny was sick, so  I took the day off from work to take care of our two kids: Livia, who is two, and Augustus, who is three and a half.  I thought that going to the playg round would be a good thing to do, but it turned out to be an accident waiting to ha ppen.
> When we got to the playground, the kids jumped out of the car.  Livia got onto the merry-go-round, pushing it as hard as she could.  The t rouble was, there were a couple of toddlers playing on it and they fell backwards, getting the wind knocked out of them.
> Augustus, on the other hand, ran straight for the swing  set and almost got decapitated!  Then he went over to the see-saw and almo st got smashed when he tried to run under it!  He ran out of my grasp an d onto the jungle gym.  He started hanging off the monkey bars.  I caught him just in time as he fell!
> When I turned around, I saw that Livia had got onto the slide and slid head first into the sandbox!  Good thing she wasn’t hurt.
> By this time, I realized my mistake.  Far from a safe place  to play, for two lively kids and one father, the playground was a deathtrap!
> Our story begins with the poor father in this story – no t me, by the way – taking his son and daughter to a playground.  A “playground” is an area where children play that usually has large pieces of equipment.  You of ten find these in a public park or next to a school.

He says that “My wife was out of town on business (she was t raveling in another city) and our nanny was sick.”  A “nanny” (nanny) is a woman whose job is to take care of someone else’s children, usually when the pare nt is gone working. The nanny often lives in the home of the family, althou gh sometimes they just come over early in the morning when the mother and fat her are getting ready to leave for work.

In the story, the poor father took the day off from wo rk (to not go to work) and took care of their two children, Livia and Augustus.  He says that he thought that going to the playground would be a good thing to do,  but it turned out (it resulted that) it was an accident waiting to happen.  The expressi on “an accident waiting to happen” means that something is dangerous.  It’s a sit uation where something bad will probably happen if you wait long enough, wit h enough time – so in general, a dangerous situation.

“When we got to the playground,” he says, “the kids jump ed out of the car,” meaning they opened the doors quickly and got out of the  car.  Livia got onto the merry-go-round.  A “merry-go-round” is a large, round  piece of equipment for children to play on.  It is flat and spins around in a ci rcle.  Usually there are places for the children to stand or sit on the merry-go- round.  Merry-go-rounds can sometimes be sophisticated, with horses – not real hor ses, of course – horses that go up and down as the circle goes around and  around.  A merry-go- round is interesting for very young children, maybe three , four, five years old.

Well, in this case Livia got onto the merry-go-round and  pushed it as hard as she could – got it to move around in a circle.  Unfortunate ly, there were already a couple of “toddlers” (a couple of young children, usually one to two years old) that were sitting on the merry-go-round.  Because Livia  pushed the merry-go- round to make it spin – to make it go around in a circle , this caused the other two children to fall off of the merry-go-round (they prob ably weren’t expecting it to suddenly move), and this caused them to get the wind knocke d out of them.  To “get the wind knocked out of you” is an expression that m eans to fall down

 usually on your chest or your stomach, or having someone hit you so that you find it difficult to breathe for a short period of ti me.  Your “wind,” in this case, is the air going in and out of your lungs (that part of the body where the air goes when you breathe in).

“Augustus, on the other hand,” he says, “ran straight f or the swing set.”  To “run straight for” means to go directly to the swing set.  A “ swing set” is a large piece of equipment you would find on a playground, or even in someone’s back yard behind their house – someone who had young children.  It usually has two or three of little seats, rectangular pieces of wood or pla stic that kids can sit on, and these seats are connected to a pole that is above them so that they can swing – they can go back and forth in the air.  We used to have o ne of these in my house – in the back yard in the house where I grew up.  They w ere very popular, and still are.  Swing sets, however, can be a little dangero us because if you swing too high it’s possible for you to fall off.

Augustus apparently was swinging a little bit too much a nd almost got decapitated.  “Decapitated” means without your head, li terally when someone cuts your head off from the rest of your body – separates yo ur head from the rest of your body.  During the French Revolution there was som ething called, in English, the guillotine, which was a large blade like a  large knife that cut people’s heads off who were enemies of the government.  This is a  way of decapitating someone.  I don’t recommend it, personally!

Getting back to Augustus, he then went over to the see-sa w.  A “see-saw” (see- saw) is a long piece of wood – a rectangular piece of wo od, or sometimes metal, that has seats on both ends, and in the middle there is something that holds up the wood or the piece of metal.  When one child goes u p the other child goes down, and they go back and forth going up and down.  in the center is something that is holding up this piece of wood; technically, it is what we would call a “fulcrum” (fulcrum).  Once again, the see-saw would be a popular toy – a popular piece of equipment for a young child.  Unfortunately, the young son of the narrator of our story, Augustus, almost got smashed when  he tried to run under the see-saw.  One is guessing that there was somebody alr eady on the see-saw who was coming down, and Augustus was running underneath  the see-saw. When we say he almost got “smashed,” we mean that he al most got hurt – he almost got hit.  To “smash” usually means to apply force fr om the top down, something very heavy.  You could take a hammer, for exampl e, and smash a plate.  I don’t know why you would do this, maybe you’re  angry!  Sometimes it’s

 useful to hit something when you’re angry, as long as yo u don’t hit another person.

In this case, poor Augustus almost got smashed – almost got  hit when he tried to run under a see-saw.  “Augustus ran out of my grasp,” the poor father says, “and onto the jungle gym.”  To be “out of your grasp” (gr asp) means to be away from your hands – to be too far for you to hold or to touch.   We can also use this in a more metaphorical sense, you can say that becoming preside nt of the company is out of my grasp – it’s too far away from me, I can’t r each it, I can’t obtain it. The word “grasp” has a couple of different meanings in English; take a look at our Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

Augustus runs out of his father’s grasp and onto a jungl e gym.  A “jungle gym” is a large, tall piece of equipment that has many differe nt metal bars separated by open spaces so that children can climb on them.  It’s anot her large piece of equipment that you would find in a park on a playgrou nd.  Part of the jungle gym has what we would call “monkey bars.”  “Monkey bars” are so rt of like a ladder that is horizontal instead of vertical.  Normally, if yo u want to climb up to the top of your house or to a top of a building you might use a  ladder, which has pieces of metal every couple of feet or every foot that are ba sically steps that you can climb up to go straight up.  Monkey bars consist of a ladd er that is horizontal instead of vertical, and you grab onto each metal bar an d you try to move forward.  If you’ve seen a movie about the army – the ar med forces training, this is a very common way of training soldiers when you have these  monkey bars, essentially.  We don’t call them monkey bars in the army, I would guess, but that’s what they’re called on a playground.  It’s basicall y a horizontal ladder that you have high above the ground, and you grab one bar a nd move forward with your arms.

In this case, Augustus got up to the monkey bars and almost fell off of them, hitting the ground.  He did fall off, but his father  was there to catch him.  When the father turns around he sees that Livia has gone onto  the slide.  A “slide” on a playground is a long, flat, narrow piece of metal that  is placed at an angle so that children can go down it.  So you have a ladder that goe s to the top of the slide, and the children get on the slide and they go all the  way down to the bottom.  In fact, we would use the verb “to slide” – “They slide dow n to the bottom of the slide” (used as a noun).  “Slide” has a couple of differ ent meanings in English, however, so take a look at the Learning Guide to underst and this word a little better.

 Unfortunately, Livia is going down the slide head first.   When we say someone goes down “head first” we mean that their head is movin g in front of their feet, especially if you are sliding down something.  It is dange rous if you are going down with your head as the first thing that would hit the ground; you want your feet to be the first thing that hits the ground.  So , the opposite of head first would be feet first.  Livia slides into a sandbox.  A “sandbo x” is a large, open, rectangular box that is filled with sand, very small piece s of earth that you usually find on a beach.  Very young children often like to play in these sandboxes. Fortunately for Livia, because the slide went into a sand box, the sand was able to protect her from hurting herself too much.

The father says at the end of the story, “By this time, I  realized my mistake.”  He thought the playground was a safe place to play, which is why he says, “Far from a safe place to play (meaning that’s not true, it’s not a safe place to play), it’s not a safe place for two lively kids and one father.”  “Lively”  means very active, with lots of energy.  Instead, he says, “the playground was a d eathtrap!”  A “deathtrap” is a very dangerous thing or dangerous place where you can get killed very easily.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed.

[start of story]

My wife was out of town on business and our nanny was sick, so  I took the day off from work to take care of our two kids: Livia, who is two, and Augustus, who is three and a half.  I thought that going to the playg round would be a good thing to do, but it turned out to be an accident waiting to ha ppen.

When we got to the playground, the kids jumped out of the car.  Livia got onto the merry-go-round, pushing it as hard as she could.  The t rouble was, there were a couple of toddlers playing on it and they fell backwards, getting the wind knocked out of them.

Augustus, on the other hand, ran straight for the swing  set and almost got decapitated!  Then he went over to the see-saw and almo st got smashed when he tried to run under it!  He ran out of my grasp an d onto the jungle gym.  He started hanging off the monkey bars.  I caught him just in time as he fell!

When I turned around, I saw that Livia had got onto the slide and slid head first into the sandbox!  Good thing she wasn’t hurt.

 By this time, I realized my mistake.  Far from a safe place  to play, for two lively kids and one father, the playground was a deathtrap!

[end of story]

The script for this episode was written by the lively Dr. L ucy Tse.



English as a Second Language Podcast is written and produ ced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan.  Copyright 2009, by the Cen ter for Educational Development.

