# Giving Warnings and Cautions

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 401: Giving Warnings and Cautions.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 401.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there to download a Learning Guide, an 8 to 10 page guide we provide for all our current episodes.  It contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions not discussed on the audio episode, cultural notes, comprehension checks, and a complete transcript of every word we say on this episode so you can follow along as well.  This episode is called “Giving Warnings and Cautions.”  It is a dialogue between Brett and his mom.  They’re going to be talking about Brett’s new apartment, and some problems in the apartment.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Brett:  Hi, Mom.  Come in.  Welcome to my new place.  My roommates aren’t here right now or I’d introduce you.  Mom:  Hi, dear.  This is…uh…nice.    Brett:  It is, isn’t it?  I know you were a little worried about me moving out and into a house with five roommates.  But as you can see, this is a nice place.  Let me give you a tour.  Mom:  Oh, okay.  Isn’t it a little cramped in the house with six people?  Brett:  No way!  Come on.  I’ll show you the rest of the house.  Let’s go this way to the kitchen.  Watch out for that hole in the floor.  I don’t want you to trip.  And don’t worry about the “Do Not Cross – Police Line” tape.  It’s just a joke.  Mom:  This is the kitchen?  Why are all of your dishes on the floor?  What do you keep in your cupboards?  Brett:  Be careful opening them!  We’re short on closet space so some of the guys keep their clothes and shoes in them.  You never know what you’ll find if 