# Talking About Architecture

Welcome to English as a Second La nguage Podcast number 482: Talking About Architecture.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 482.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our websi te is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Gui de for this episode, which will give you all of the vocabulary, defin itions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural  notes, and a complete transcript of everything we  say on this episode.

This episode is a dialogue between Iktinos and Pinda; th ey’re going to be talking about “architecture,” the way that we make buildings, i ncluding a lot of very common vocabulary to talk about buildings and houses.  Let ’s get started.

[start of dialogue]

Iktinos:  I can’t believe we’re in one of the world’s mo st famous structures.  Look at this architecture!

Pinda:  Yeah, great, another old building.  I’m going to sit in that bay window and rest my feet while you walk around.

Iktinos:  Come on, come with me.  Just look at these columns and  beams. They’re over 2,000 years old!

Pinda:  Right, they’re old.  Everything we’ve seen these  past two weeks has been old.  What’s so special about this?

Iktinos:  Are you trying to tell me that you don’t thin k this dome is impressive?  It’s one of the largest in the world.  Look at those cornices and skylights.  I’ve never seen anything like them.

Pinda:  This building has a good facade, with nice bala nce and symmetry, but I’m so tired of look ing at the same style of building, one after another.   Aren’t we going to see anything else today?

Iktinos:  We are seeing some of the most important monum ents to human ingenuity.

These materials are copyrighted by the Center f or Educational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in  any way is prohibited. 6 Pinda:  You’re right, but I’m too tired to walk up a nd down all three st ories.  You go.  I’ll stay here on this balcony.

Iktinos:  What are you going to do here?

Pinda:  I’m going to think about how I’d remodel the  building to bring it up to date.

Iktinos:  You’re hopeless!

[end of dialogue]

The dialogue begins with I ktinos saying, “I can’t believe we’re in one of the world’s most famous structures.”  A “structure” is a build ing or something that was made by human beings, something to work in or live in.  These are all considered structures: a house, a building are exa mples.  Iktinos says, “Look at this architecture!”  “Architecture” is the art and science of designing and creating new buildings.  There are many different types of archi tecture; historically, you can find many different varieties throughout the world.

Pinda says, “Yeah, great, another old building.”  Pinda  is not very excited about architecture.  She says, “I’m going to sit in that bay wi ndow and rest my feet while you walk around.”  A “bay window” is a large wind ow that pushes out through the wall of a building; it creates an area wh ere you can sit.  Normally, it’s like a semicircle that goes out from the side of the buil ding to the outside.  It’s a window, but it’s a window where you can sit down on and  look out or look in, depending on what’s more interesting.

Pinda is going to rest for a while.  Iktinos says, howeve r, “Come on, come with me.  Just look at these columns and beams,” he says.  A “colu mn” is a large piece of a building that goes from the floor to the ceiling.  Usually, it’s like a big, round tube; it’s circular.  It can be used to support the ceiling – support the top part of the building or the floor of the building a bove you.  Often a column is used, however, for decoration purposes; it looks nice.  The  most famous example of columns w ould be, perhaps, the Parthenon in Athens, the great temple on top of the Acropolis in Athens that is surrounded by columns.  And, of course, there are many columns in various buildings throughout the wo rld, especially in Western and European architecture.  A “beam” is a long piece of the building that goes from one side of the ceiling to the other.  So, a  column is vertical; a beam is horizontal, it goes from one side of the room to the o ther.  Again, it’s used to help support the roof or the upper floor of the building.   The word “beam” has several

These materials are copyrighted by the Center f or Educational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in  any way is prohibited. 7 different meanings, so take a look at the Learning Gui de for some additional explanations.

Iktinos says that the columns and beams are over 2,000 years o ld.  Pinda says, “Yeah, right, they’re old.  Everything we’ve seen these p ast two weeks has been old.  What’s so special about this?”  Iktinos says, “Are you trying to tell me that you don’t think this dome is impressive?”  A “dome” (dome)  is a round roof of a building.  For example, if you go to Rome in Italy, yo u can see the roof of the Basilica of St. Peter in Vatican City.  There are domes,  for example, in many capitol buildings, such as in our capital of Washington , D.C.; there’s a dome on top of our Capitol Building.  There are domes in man y different kinds  of government and religious buildings throughout the worl d.  Iktinos is saying to Pinda, “don’t you think this dome is impressive,” meanin g it’s something that you would admire, something that you would like.  The expre ssion “are you trying to tell me” is  usually one where we are expressing to the person our d isbelief; we can’t believe that this person doesn’t agree with us or i s saying this thing.

Iktinos says that the dome is one of the largest in the w orld.  Then he says, “Look at those cornices and skylights.”  A “cornice” (cornice) is plast er, a type of building material, or wood that’s put inside of a bui lding usually right next to the ceiling, the top of a room, and it is very fancy – it is very decorated.  A “skylight” is a window in the ceiling that allows light to come into the room.  You can onl y have a skylight, of course, if the ceiling is the roof of t he building, or near the roof of the building.  Iktinos says, “I’ve never seen anything li ke them.”

Pinda says, “This building has a good f acade, with nice balance and symmetry, but I’m so tired of looking at the same style of buildi ng, one after another.”  A “facade” (spelled facade) is the front of the building;  it’s the way that the building appears from the street.  Sometimes the front of the b uilding can look very impressive –  very large, but the rest of the building is not.  We use this word “facade” also to mean the perhaps false impression that p eople give.  They look like they’re happy, but they’re not really happy; their happy face i s a facade.  In architecture, the “facade” is the front of the buildin g.

Pinda says that the building has a good facade with nice balance and symmetry. “Balance” is when you have two things that are in equal amounts or that are in amounts that seem to ma ke sense.  They don’t have one much more than the other, or one that seems to dominate the other.  So balance is – can be equality, equilibrium, but it can also just mean that the propor tions that you see you seem right, they seem correct.  “Symmetry” mean s something is the same on both sides.  It’s similar to “balance,” but it is specifically som ething that is identical, that is the same on two sides.

These materials are copyrighted by the Center f or Educational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in  any way is prohibited. 8 Pinda says, “I’m so tired of looking at the same style (or  the same type) of building, one after another. ”  She asks, “Aren’t we going to see anything else today?”  Iktinos says, “We are seeing some of the most impor tant monuments to human ingenuity.”  A “monument” is something, normally,  that makes you remember something; it could be a building, it could b e a statue.  It allows you to remember some important person or some important event in history.  “Ingenuity” means creativity, the ability to think of new things and c reate new things.

Pinda says, “You’re right, but I’m too tired to walk up  and down all th ree stories.” A “story” is a floor of the building; it’s a level of the building.  This building has three stories, so it has three levels.  It has the first or ground floor, the second floor, and the third floor.  Pinda and Iktinos are to urists, and Pind a is now tired of walking.  Pinda says, “You go (you go ahead).  I’ll stay h ere on the balcony.”  A “balcony” is a flat area outside of a window or a door that is on an upper floor. You can stand on it and look outside, or simply sit in a ch air and be out side of the building.  If you are familiar with the famous Shakesp eare play Romeo and Juliet , there is a well-known scene –  a well -known part of the play where Juliet is in her house and usually, when you watch the play, it shows her o n a balcony.  She’s on the balcony looking for Romeo; Romeo, of course, is dow n below and starts to talk to Juliet.  It’s such a famous scene that some houses a ctually have what’s called a Juliet balcony.  A Juliet balcony, however, is very small; it’s a small rectangle where one person can barely stand.  It’s not a large extension on the side of the house.

Iktinos asks, “What are you going to do here?”  Pinda says, “I’m going to think about how I’d remodel the building and bring it up to date.”  “To remodel” means to change a  building so that it is better, perhaps more modern or  larger.  “To bring (something) up to date” means to make something m ore modern, more current, more appropriate for the time that we live i n now.  Pinda is saying that she’s going to think about how she  can change this building – remodel it to bring it up to date.  Of course, Iktinos doesn’t like this idea  at all; he says, “You’re hopeless!” meaning there’s nothing I can say or do that w ould change your opinion; you have such a wrong opinion that I’m not  going to bother arguing with you.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of dialogue]

Iktinos:  I can’t believe we’re in one of the world’s mo st famous structures.  Look at this architecture!

These materials are copyrighted by the Center f or Educational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in  any way is prohibited. 9 Pinda:  Yeah, great, another old building.  I’m going to sit in that bay window and rest my feet while you walk around.

Iktinos:  Come on, come with me.  Just look at these column s and beams. They’re over 2,000 years old!

Pinda:  Right, they’re old.  Everything we’ve seen these  past two weeks has been old.  What’s so special about this?

Iktinos:  Are you trying to tell me that you don’t thin k this dome is impressive?  It’s one of the largest in the world.  Look at those cornices and skylights.  I’ve never seen anything like them .

Pinda:  This building has a good facade, with nice bala nce and symmetry, but I’m so tired of looking at the same style of building, one after another.  Aren’t we going to see anything else today?

Iktinos:  We are seeing some of the most important mon uments to human ingenuity.

Pinda:  You’re right, but I’m too tired to walk up a nd down all three stories.  You go.  I’ll stay here on this balcony.

Iktinos:  What are you going to do here?

Pinda:  I’m going to think about how I’d remodel the  building to bring it up to date.

Iktinos:  You’re hopeless!

[end of dialogue]

The script for this episode was written by someone with gr eat ingenuity, our own Dr. Lucy Tse.





