# Talking About Inventory

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 464: Talking About Inventory.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 464.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there; take a look at our new courses that we have.  These are additional courses in business and daily English I think you may be interested in, including our Introduction to the United States.  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode which will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Talking About Inventory.”  “Inventory” is what you sell – what a company sells; it can also mean a list of something in a particular place, including the things that a company sells.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Foreman:  Okay, people.  Listen up.    This is your first day on the job in this warehouse and you need to know what we do here.  This warehouse keeps all of the stock for the 10 stores in this region.  We get merchandise from the supplier and it’s our job to organize it and store it until it goes to the retail outlets.  One of the reasons our stores can offer such low prices is that they operate on the principles of economies of scale.  This means that we buy in bulk and there’s a lot to catalogue and store.  We even have some stock on consignment, so it’s all the more important that we’re able to keep track of any merchandise that comes through here.  Any questions?  Carla:  Yeah, are we the end of the supply chain or do we send merchandise to other warehouses?  Foreman:  We are it.  Merchandise comes to us from suppliers and we distribute it to the stores.  Any other questions?  Carla:  Does merchandise ever go missing? 