# Organizing Your Office

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 4 68: Organizing Your Office.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 468.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there to download  a Learning Guide for this episode, which will help you improve your English eve n faster – and also make you a little better looking!

This episode is a story about organizing your office.  If yo u are a “messy” person, a person who has things in a disorganized way, this will b e a good episode for you.  You’ll learn some vocabulary about organizing your self.  Let’s get started. > I have a very disorganized office.  My co-workers have been m aking jokes about my office for a long time, and my boss finally cracked down on me.  He told me: “Get the office organized by Friday – no excuses!”  What ch oice did I have?
> I’ve always been a pack rat.  I hate to throw anything ou t, but I was determined to turn over a new leaf.  It’s true I’ve worked in the same  office for four years and have accumulated a lot of paper, but if I put my mind to it, I’m sure I could get rid of all of the clutter.
> There are piles of paper and files all over my desk and so rting them out won’t be easy.  All I need to do, though, is to purge my filing cabinets of old files to make room for new ones.  I also need to triage the papers o n my desk, on the floor, and in my overflowing inbox.  Then, I only need to make new files and label them.  Finally, I’ll only keep those things on my desk tha t are essential and get rid of anything that isn’t.
> That’s a pretty good plan, don’t you think?  I’ve alrea dy made a to-do list.  Now all I need to do is start on those tasks!

My story begins by saying, “I have a very disorganized office.”  Something that is “disorganized” is something that is not organized, when  you don’t know where

 everything is that you own; things are very messy.  I say that my co-workers have been making jokes about my office for a long time, and m y boss finally cracked down on me.  “To crack down on (someone)” is a phrasal e xpression meaning to be very strict, to make someone follow every single rule.  “ To crack down” means to suddenly enforce a law that perhaps was not enforce d before.  When the police crack down on protesters, they may be violent with th em in order to get them to stop, arresting them and so forth.  It can be  both a noun and a verb: a “crackdown” could be a noun; “to crack down” is the verb, of  course.

In this case, my boss cracked down on me, he made me follow  the rules.  He told me: “Get the office organized by Friday – no excuses!” mean ing I will not accept any excuses – any reasons why your office is not organized.  I say, “What choice did I have (what else could I do)?”  I then say that I’ve  always been a pack rat. The expression “pack (pack) rat (rat)” refers to someone who  saves everything, who never throws things away, even when those things are n ot useful anymore. “I hate to throw anything out,” I say, “but I was dete rmined to turn over a new leaf.”  I was determined – I had decided to turn over  a new leaf.  “To turn over a new leaf” (leaf) means to have a new beginning, to ch ange your habits and do something in a completely different way.

Well, I say I’m going to turn over a new leaf; I also say it’s true that I’ve worked in the same office for four years and have accumulated a lot of paper.  “To accumulate” means to increase the quantity of something o ver a period of time, usually in a specific place, to add more of something in a  given place.  If you say, “I’ve accumulated a lot of old newspapers on my dining ro om table,” they have increased, there are more and more of them; I need to  do something about them, such as throw them out.  I say that if I put my mind to it, I’m sure I could get rid of all of the clutter.  “To put your mind to (something) ” is an expression that means to commit to something, to decide that you are going to  do it, no excuses, even if it’s difficult.  “Clutter” (clutter) is a mess, many thin gs that are not where they should be.  Many of us have clutter in our closets; they a re full of things that are not very well organized, things that often don’t belon g there.

I say that there are piles of paper and files all over my desk.  A “pile of (something)” is a group of many objects, one on top of the other.  You could have a pile of papers, many papers on top of each other; you  could have a pile of books, one book on top of another.  “Files” are holder s for a group of papers, usually about a particular topic or a particular organiza tion or person – customer, for example.  We all, in an office, have files, places wh ere we keep papers about a similar topic together.

 I say that there are piles of paper and files all over my desk and sorting them out won’t be easy.  “To sort (something) out” means to organ ize them.  You can also just say “to sort.”  “To sort” usually means putting thin gs in order, in the proper sequence.  “To sort things out,” however, has a little mo re general meaning, meaning to organize things to, to clarify, to make a situ ation easier to understand or to resolve differences among people about something.   Here, it just means to organize these piles of paper and files.

I say, “All I need to do is to purge my filing cabinets of old files.”  “To purge” (purge) means to get rid of something, to throw someth ing away, to remove something.  I’m going to purge my filing cabinets.  A “ cabinet,” here, is a piece of furniture; a “filing cabinet” usually is made of metal or wood and has large drawers where you put the individual files.  I have fili ng cabinets of old files, if I purge them – if I get rid of some of them, I’ll be able to make room for new ones. “To make room for (something)” means to make space availab le for something, to move something out so that you can put something else in there.

I say, “I also need to triage the papers on my desk.”  “To  triage” (triage) means to decide which is the most important thing: what you have to do right now, what you have to do later, and so forth.  Doctors, if they are in a medical emergency at a hospital and they have dozens of people coming – lots of patients with injuries after an accident, for example – they may have to perfor m a triage.  They have to triage – separate the patients that are most sick from those that can wait a little. In this case, I’m triaging the papers; I’m sorting them  to get the most important ones first.  I also have an overflowing inbox.  An “inbox”  can be part of your email program, where you first see your messages.  An “inbox” can  also be a small box where you put papers that you need to work on.  Is someth ing is “overflowing,” we mean that there’s too much of it so that the contain er, in this case the box, is too small because you have so many papers and files.  It’s overflowing.

“Then,” I say, “I only need to make new files and label  them.”  “To label” (label) means to put a small piece of paper with a written de scription onto an object so that you know what that object is.  “To label your file s” means to write on the top of the file what is inside of this file so you can find it easily.  “Label” has a couple of different meanings in English however, so take a look at that Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

I say that finally, I’ll only keep those things on my desk th at are essential and get rid of anything that isn’t.  “Essential” means very import ant, the most important, critical.  I’m going to only keep the most important thi ngs – the essential things, and get rid of anything that isn’t essential.  “That’s a pretty good plan, don’t you think?” I ask, “I’ve already made a to-do list.”  A “to- do list” is a piece of paper

 where you write down all of the things that you have to  do.  I say that all I need now is to start on those tasks.  A “task” is something that yo u have to do; it’s an action, it’s an activity.  You can’t just write down a list  of your tasks, you actually have to do them.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed. > I have a very disorganized office.  My co-workers have been m aking jokes about my office for a long time, and my boss finally cracked down on me.  He told me: “Get the office organized by Friday – no excuses!”  What ch oice did I have?
> I’ve always been a pack rat.  I hate to throw anything ou t, but I was determined to turn over a new leaf.  It’s true I’ve worked in the same  office for four years and have accumulated a lot of paper, but if I put my mind to it, I’m sure I could get rid of all of the clutter.
> There are piles of paper and files all over my desk and so rting them out won’t be easy.  All I need to do, though, is to purge my filing cabinets of old files to make room for new ones.  I also need to triage the papers o n my desk, on the floor, and in my overflowing inbox.  Then, I only need to make new files and label them.  Finally, I’ll only keep those things on my desk tha t are essential and get rid of anything that isn’t.
> That’s a pretty good plan, don’t you think?  I’ve alrea dy made a to-do list.  Now all I need to do is start on those tasks!

Our script for this episode was written by someone with no  clutter on her desk, Dr. Lucy Tse.





