# Using Hair Products and Accessories

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 4 83: Using Hair Products and Accessories.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 483.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there and download a Lea rning Guide for this episode.  The Learning Guide is an 8- to 10-page guid e that will help you improve your English even faster.

This episode is called “Using Hair Products and Accessories.”  It’s about a woman – a girl, who goes to get her hair done by someo ne who is a professional “hair stylist,” someone who cleans and fixes your hair.  No t surprisingly, we’ll be introduced to a lot of vocabulary that is related to get ting your hair done, especially for a woman.  Let’s get started.

[start of dialogue]

Danny:  You’re going to the prom.  How exciting!  How should we style you hair?

Clarissa:  I’m really not sure.  I was hoping you would have some ideas.

Danny:  I do, but first we need to see if we have the right tools.  Let’s look in your bathroom.  Here’s some shampoo and conditioner, but whe re are the gel, mousse, and hairspray?

Clarissa:  Here, they’re on this shelf.  Here’s a haird ryer and some rollers, too. Do you think we’ll need the curling iron or the flat i ron?

Danny:  I’m not sure, but put them here, just in case.  Okay, now I need a brush and comb, and some bobby pins.  We’ll need some elastic bands, too, to pull your hair back.

Clarissa:  Here, they’re all in this drawer.

Danny:  Oh, this is a pretty barrette, but we won’t nee d it for tonight.  Okay, ready for the transformation?

Clarissa:  I’m as ready as I’ll ever be.

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).   Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 6 Danny:  Okay, let the fun begin!

[end of dialogue]

When I was growing up the 1960s and 70s, men who wante d to get their hair cut professionally by someone went to what we called the “ba rber.”  Women who wanted to have their hair cut or “styled,” have their h air in a certain way, would go to a place called the “hair dresser.”  The barber was u sually a man, almost always; the hairdresser was either a woman or a man.  N ow, we have what are called “hair salons,” and these are essentially places where  mostly women but some men also go to get their hair cut and styled.  Ther e are still barbers that only men go to, usually.  I don’t go to either one, of course, it’s no longer necessary!

Danny begins our dialogue by saying to his young friend Cl arissa, “You’re going to the prom.  How exciting!”  The “prom” (prom) is a l arge formal dance in American high schools, usually for those who are in their  last two years of high school: juniors and seniors.  Almost every high school has a  prom; it’s a very big, important dance that a man asks a girl – a boy, really, a sks a girl to go to this formal dance.  Not everyone goes to prom.  If you are s hy and ugly like me, well, you sit at home and you watch television – sad, I know!

Danny says, “You’re going to the prom.  How exciting!  Ho w should we style you hair?”  “To style,” as a verb, means to keep your hair a  particular appearance or a shape.  To color it, to make it shorter, to make it lo nger, that would be to style one’s hair.  Clarissa says, “I’m not really sure.  I was hop ing you would have some ideas.”  So, she’s asking Danny for his ideas.  Danny sa ys, “I do, but first we need to see if we have the right tools.”  He says, “Le t’s look in your bathroom.”  Notice Clarissa did not go to a hair salon;  she asked her friend Danny to come over and help her with her hair.  Danny sa ys, “Here’s some shampoo and conditioner, but where are the gel, mousse,  and hairspray?”

We have several vocabulary words related to taking care of yo ur hair; the first one is “shampoo.”  “Shampoo” is a liquid soap that you u se to clean your hair – to wash your hair.  “Conditioner” is a different liqui d that you put on your hair after it’s clean to make it softer, healthier, easier to style, easier to comb.  A “gel” is a thick liquid that you put in your hair to make it stay in  a certain position.  If you want the front of your hair to go straight up, then yo u would use gel; this thick liquid would allow the hair to stick straight up, kind of like a punk rocker in the 1980s.  “Mousse” (spelled mousse) is also a liquid, but it is one that is very light; it actually has small air bubbles in it.  You put in you r hair to make your hair look

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).   Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 7 thicker; you can also use it sort of like a gel, to make it  stay in a certain position. “Hairspray” is a liquid that you spray on dry hair.  normally, mousse, gel, and conditioner are used when the hair is wet.  Hairspray is used when the hair is dry to make sure that the hair doesn’t move.

Clarissa answers Danny, “Here, they’re on this shelf.  Her e’s a hairdryer and some rollers, too.”  A “hairdryer” is a small machine th at blows hot air on the hair to dry it, after you wash it and put whatever other li quids you’re going to put on there.  “Rollers” are small, round pieces of plastic – a small plastic tube that you wrap your hair around.  It’s what women use to make curl s in their hair, where the hair curls around in a little ball.  That is a “r oller.”  Sometimes the roller is actually heated; sometimes it’s just plastic.  These are al so called “curlers” – rollers, that is, are also called “curlers.”  “To curl,” as a verb, means to form a circle with something that is otherwise flat.  You can cur l up a piece of paper; you can take a piece of paper and make it into what looks like  a long tube.

Clarissa also asks Danny, “Do you think we’ll need the curli ng iron or the flat iron?”  A “curling iron” is a small machine that is heat ed.  It has a long piece of metal, like a stick of metal, that gets very hot, and it a llows you to curl the hair, to make them into small circles by putting it into your hair .  The hair goes around the curling iron.  An “iron” is generally a piece of me tal that is hot that is used normally to make something flat, such as if you have a shi rt and you want the shirt to be completely straight, without any wrinkles, you would use a clothes iron. Well, this is a curling iron.  There’s also the little m achine you can use called a “flat iron.”  A “flat iron” is a machine that you hold  in your hand that has two flat pieces of metal that get very hot.  So you put the hair in between the two pieces metal to make the hair straight.  So a curling iron t akes the hair and makes it into a round circle; a flat iron takes the hair and makes it f lat or straight.

Danny says, “I’m not sure, but put them here, just in case ,” just in case they need them.  “Okay,” he says, “now I need a brush and comb, and some bobby pins.” A “brush” is a piece of wood or plastic that you hold in  your hand that has many small pieces – they’re kind of like hairs, they’re usually li ke pieces of plastic but they could also be metal – that you use to make your hair straight or to make your hair go in a certain way.  A “comb” is similar, but it’s flat and it just has one row of these individual, we call them, “teeth” that a  man can use to straighten his hair – or a woman.  Combs and brushes are used to make the hair go in a certain direction.  Both the word “brush” and the word “rolle r” have different meanings in English in addition to the ones we talked about here.  Take a look at our Learning Guide for this episode for some additional explanations.

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).   Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 8 “Bobby pins” are small, thin pieces of metal that are f olded in half; they have an opening at one end where you can put the hair to keep  it in a particular place. For example, if you’re a woman or girl and you have so me short hair in the front of your head and you want that hair to not be in your way, you want to put it back on your head, you can use a bobby pin to keep it there.  Bobby pins are not usually easy to see; they’re small and are the same color a s your hair.  They allow you to put your hair up into different positions.   When I was a kid, we used to use them like paper clips to keep pieces of paper toget her.  For some reason, my mother never liked that!

Danny goes onto say, “We’ll need some elastic bands, too, t o pull your hair back.”  An “elastic band” is a small, round piece of pla stic that stretches – it becomes larger.  You can put it around your hair to keep  it in a certain position. For example, if you wanted your hair to stick straight b ack in what we would call a “ponytail,” then you could use one of these elastic band s.

Clarissa says, “Here, they’re all in this drawer,” all of the things that Danny is looking for.  Danny says, “Oh, this is a pretty barrette, but we don’t need it for ton ight.”  A “barrette” is a small piece of plastic, wood,  or metal that opens and closes at one end.  It’s similar to a bobby pin, it allow s you to put your hair in a certain position, but it is bigger and it is easier to se e on the head.  Danny says, “Okay, ready for the transformation (are you ready for th is big, important change)?”  Clarissa says, “I’m as ready as I’ll ever be.”  This is a phrase used to show that you are ready to do something but you’re lit tle worried; you’re a little nervous about it but there isn’t any more preparation t hat you can do, you just want to go ahead and do it: “I’m as ready as I’ll ever be.”  Danny says, “Okay, let the fun begin!”

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of dialogue]

Danny:  You’re going to the prom.  How exciting!  How should we style you hair?

Clarissa:  I’m really not sure.  I was hoping you would have some ideas.

Danny:  I do, but first we need to see if we have the right tools.  Let’s look in your bathroom.  Here’s some shampoo and conditioner, but whe re are the gel, mousse, and hairspray?

Clarissa:  Here, they’re on this shelf.  Here’s a hairdr yer and some rollers, too. Do you think we’ll need the curling iron or the flat i ron?

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).   Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 9 Danny:  I’m not sure, but put them here, just in case.  Okay, now I need a brush and comb, and some bobby pins.  We’ll need some elastic b ands, too, to pull your hair back.

Clarissa:  Here, they’re all in this drawer.

Danny:  Oh, this is a pretty barrette, but we won’t nee d it for tonight.  Okay, ready for the transformation?

Clarissa:  I’m as ready as I’ll ever be.

Danny:  Okay, let the fun begin!

[end of dialogue]

The script for this episode was written by someone who know s a lot more curling irons, bobby pins, and barrettes tha n I do, Dr. Lucy Tse.





