# An Emergency Airplane Landing

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 54: An Emergency Airplane Landing.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 554.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Please go to our website and support this podcast by becom ing a member or making a small donation.  You can do so at eslpod.com .

This episode is called “An Emergency Airplane Landing.”  A “landing” is when the plane comes down to the ground; an “emergency landing” would be when there’s some problem with the airplane.  Let’s get started. > I was nearly asleep in my seat when I heard this announce ment:
> “Folks, this is the captain speaking from the cockpit.  We a re experiencing a lot of turbulence and I’m turning on the fasten seatbelt sig n.  Please remain in your seats.”
> I didn’t think anything of it until a few minutes late r when I heard this announcement:
> “This is your captain speaking again.  Due to extreme weat her conditions, we may need to make an emergency landing.  The cabin crew w ill review the emergency procedures, and give you instructions on how to use  the floatation devices and the oxygen masks.  Please stay calm.”
> This is when I started to freak out.  What if we crash-l and?  What if we dive into the ocean?  Who would rescue us here in the middle of n owhere?
> Then, I heard this announcement:
> “Ladies and gentlemen, this is the captain again.  It se ems that we had an instrument malfunction, and no emergency landing will b e necessary.  Sorry to alarm you, and please go back to sleep.”
> Our story begins when I say “I was nearly (meaning I was a lmost) asleep in my seat when I heard this announcement.”  Of course, we’re on an airplane in the middle of an airplane flight.  “Folks, this is the capta in speaking from the cockpit.” “Folks” is an informal way of saying “ladies and gentlemen ”; even more informal would be “guys” or “hey guys,” but a captain wouldn’t say t hat.  “Folks” is a little old-fashioned.  The word “folks” is also used to describe y our parents. Somebody says, “My folks are traveling,” they mean my parent s are traveling, but here it just means ladies and gentlemen.

“This is the captain speaking from the cockpit,” he says.  the “cockpit” (cockpit) is the part of the plane where the pilot and the assist ant pilot (we call him or her the “co-pilot”) sit, separated from the rest of the pla ne.  It’s in the very front of the plane, the cockpit.  The captain says that we are experienci ng (meaning we are having) a lot of turbulence.  “Turbulence” is when you h ave unpredictable movement in the airplane, usually because of wind or stor ms.  The airplane starts to move up and down or side to side.  It’s usually an unco mfortable situation.

The captain turns on the fasten seatbelt sign.  A “seatbe lt” is a belt that keeps you in your seat.  Most cars have seatbelts; you put the sea tbelt on before you start driving.  In fact, that’s the law in most places in the United States.  On an airplane, you also have a seatbelt that will, we hope,  prevent you from getting hurt if there is some sort of emergency situation or a lo t of turbulence, so you don’t fall out of your seat.  “To fasten a seatbelt” me ans to put it on.  “To fasten (something)” means to connect one thing with another.  A seatbelt has a metal end on it, and that fastens, or connects into the other  part of the seatbelt that is on the other side of the seat.  The “fasten seatbelt sig n” is a sign in the airplane that you can see usually above every seat that tells you whe ther you can get up and walk around, or whether you should remain in your se at with your seatbelts fastened.

The captain tells people to remain in their seats.  I say that I didn’t think anything of it (meaning I wasn’t thinking about it, it didn’t seem important) until a few minutes later when I heard another announcement.  The  captain comes on again: “This is your captain speaking again.  Due to extre me weather conditions, we may need to make an emergency landing.”  “Extreme wea ther conditions” would be a lot of rain, snow, or wind that might aff ect the way the plane flies.  An “emergency landing” is when the plane has to come down t o the ground, or

 perhaps the water, because there’s some problem with the airplane and it can’t continue flying.  “Landing” is when the plane comes back down to the ground. The opposite is called the “takeoff,” that’s when the pl ane goes up in the air.

Well, an emergency landing, of course, is a very serious th ing.  The captain says that the cabin crew will review emergency procedures.  A  “crew” is a group of people, in this case who are working together.  These are people who work for the airline; they are called, typically, “flight attenda nts,” and they work on the plane.  They give you your food, they provide informatio n and directions, and so forth.  The “cabin” is the part of the plane where the people are.  Usually in American airplanes, there is a big cabin, which is called  the “coach” cabin, that’s where the cheap seats are.  And then there’s the busine ss or first-class cabin in the front of the plane, where they have nice seats and good food.  The “cabin” refers, in general, to everything, all of the passenger s in the airplane.  So the “cabin crew” really means the flight attendants; in th is case, everyone but the pilots, who are in the front flying the plane.  “Proce dures” are steps; things that you have to do to.  “Emergency procedures” would be the things you have to do; in this case, if they had to make an emergency landing.

The captains says the cabin crew will give instructions on ho w to use the floatation devices and the oxygen masks.  “To float” (floa t) means to go into the water but not to go down below the water, you stay on top of the water.  A “floatation device” is something that you either wear o r hold onto that prevents your body from going underneath the water.  So if you  can’t swim, for example, but you have a floatation device, you can hang onto the  floatation device so that you don’t go down into the water and die.  The “oxygen  mask” is a small device you put over your mouth and your nose so that you can breat he oxygen in.  Of course, you need oxygen to survive, and when the plane is up  at a very high altitude, when it is high above the earth, you need th at oxygen given to you.  In an emergency situation you have oxygen masks, usually they are above where you are sitting.

The captain tells everyone to please stay calm, which, of c ourse, means don’t get excited, don’t panic, but that’s very difficult for peopl e to do in this situation.  I say that this is when I started to freak out.  “To freak (f reak) out” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to become very worried or anxious o r scared.  It’s somewhat of an informal term.  Then I say, “What if we  crash-land?”  “To crash- land” means that the airplane has to go down either o n the ground or somewhere else, but not at the airport.  Of course, you don’t wa nt the plane to land somewhere else because many times the plane will blow up  – it will explode, and once again, you would die.  You see this is a happy, hap py story; I hope you’re not listening to this while you’re on the airplane!

 I say also, because I’m so worried, “What if we dive into  the ocean?”  “To dive” (dive) means to jump or to fall into the water from a bove, usually so that you are then completely underneath the water, at least for a period of time.  “Dive” has a couple of other in English, very different meanings; take  a look at the Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

So I am afraid that the plane is going to go down in to the ocean.  I then say, “Who would rescue us here in the middle of nowhere?”  “The middle of nowhere,” or “in the middle of nowhere,” means it’s a very remote  place, which means it isn’t near anything else.  There aren’t any cities, there  aren’t any towns, there aren’t a lot of people around; that would be in the  middle of nowhere.  “To rescue” means to find and save someone who’s in a difficult  situation.  So, there’ll be no one to rescue us if they crash-land or go into to the ocean because there is no one near them, they’re in the middle of n owhere.

Then, I hear the final announcement: “Ladies and gent lemen, this is the captain again.  It seems that we had an instrument malfunctio n.”  An “instrument” is a tool, in this case a tool that provides you information:  how high the plane is flying, how fast the plane is going.  These are pieces of infor mation that the instruments in the cockpit will indicate.  A “malfunction” is when som ething breaks, when it doesn’t work, when it stops working properly.  So the capt ain is saying that there isn’t an emergency, it was just a problem with their inst ruments.  The information was wrong; the machine was not working properly, it mal functioned.

He says, “Sorry to alarm you, and please go back to sleep.”  “To alarm (someone)” means to scare them or make them very worried,  usually by telling them some very bad news.  I, of course, am surprised at what the captain is saying.  He tells us to go back to sleep.  I then say, “Is h e kidding (is he joking)? How can anyone sleep after that?!”  You thought you wer e going to die one minute, the next minute everything is fine, but you’re st ill not able to just go back to sleep.  I say, “I’m still watching my life flash befor e my eyes!”  “To watch your life flash before your eyes” is an expression that means t hat you remember everything that happened in your life, but it goes by ver y quickly.  Usually, this is an expression that indicates that you are about to die.  For example, you’re in a car, and the car begins to go over the other side of the road, and another car is about to hit you.  One second, two seconds before you die , your life may flash before your eyes; you may suddenly think of all these thin gs that happened in your life.  In general, the expression is to indicate th at you were in a very dangerous situation.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed.

 [start of story]

I was nearly asleep in my seat when I heard this announce ment:

“Folks, this is your captain speaking from the cockpit.  We’r e experiencing a lot of turbulence and I’m turning on the fasten seatbelt sig n.  Please remain in your seats.”

I didn’t think anything of it until a few minutes late r when I heard this announcement:

“This is your captain speaking again.  Due to extreme weat her conditions, we may need to make an emergency landing.  The cabin crew w ill review the emergency procedures, and give you instructions on how to use  the floatation devices and the oxygen masks.  Please stay calm.”

This is when I started to freak out.  What if we crash-l and?  What if we dive into the ocean?  Who would rescue us here in the middle of n owhere?

Then, I heard this announcement:

“Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain again.  It se ems we had an instrument malfunction, and no emergency landing will b e necessary.  Sorry to alarm you, and please go back to sleep.”

Go back to sleep?!  Is he kidding?  How can anyone sleep a fter that?!  I’m still watching my life flash before my eyes!

[end of story]

The script for this episode was written by someone who neve r freaks out in an emergency, Dr. Lucy Tse.





