# Reporting the News

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 41: Reporting the News.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 541.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in the beautiful City of Los Angeles, California.

Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Go there to download  a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even fast er.

This episode is called “Reporting the News.”  It’s going to talk about some common vocabulary when dealing with the newspaper.  We thought we would do something about newspapers before they all disappear.  L et’s get started. > I have always wanted to be a news reporter.  When I was about 10 years old, I would write my own news stories and publish them in my o wn newspaper.  In reality, the newspaper was just a piece of paper on which  I’d written my stories and drew my pictures, but it was my first taste of the pow er of the press.
> When I got to college, I worked on the university newspa per and started out as a copy editor, editing stories and writing headlines.  Th en, I began to cover news events, getting my first bylines.  I can’t tell you how excit ed I was to see my name in print for the first time!
> Since then, I’ve worked at several newspapers.  I started o ut at the bottom, writing obituaries and news briefs.  Then, I got a reg ular beat and wrote some features and investigative reports.  I’ve even written t he occasional editorial.
> What next?  You never know in the newspaper business, but I’m shooting for a Pulitzer!

Our story begins with me saying, “I have always wanted to be a news reporter.” A “news reporter” is a person whose job is to research and  describe things that are going on the in the world for a newspaper, a mag azine, perhaps a television news program or a radio news program, and of course now adays, for a news website.  This is not a true story, I should point out .  I did actually work as a news

 reporter when I was in college very briefly, and I was the editor of my high school newspaper, but that doesn’t really count as being a real  news reporter.  But I did consider in college; I decided against it.

“When I was about 10 years old,” according to the story, “ I would write my own news stories and publish them in my own newspaper.”  “To publish” means to print and distribute something for other people to re ad.  “In reality, the newspaper was just a piece of paper on which I’d written my stories and drew my pictures, but it was my first taste of the power of the press.”  Wh en we talk about your “first taste of (something)” we mean your first experience with  something, the first time that you have done something.  I had my first taste of the power of the press. The word “press” here is used the same as what we would n ow call the “media.” Newspapers, magazines, TV and radio stations, and websites  that report on the news would all be part of the press.  “Press” has other m eanings, however.  For those, take a look at our Learning Guide for this episod e.

My story continues: “When I got to college, I worked on t he university newspaper and started out as a copy editor, editing stories and wri ting headlines.”  A “copy editor” on a newspaper is the person whose job is to revi ew what other people have written, correct what they’ve written, maybe improve  it by making small changes.  “Copy” is another word for text, something that  you write.  We used to talk about newspapers having good copy, meaning interestin g stories.

I continue by saying that as a copy editor, I edited storie s and wrote headlines. “To edit” means to review, to correct, to improve.  Hence , “copy editor” is someone who reviews, corrects, and improves other people’s co py – other people’s writing.  “Headlines” are the title of the n ews articles, usually printed in a larger font – in a bigger size.  I continue: “Then, I began to cover news events.” “To cover,” when we’re talking about news, means to resea rch, investigate, and describe something – one particular topic.  Some newspap ers have certain reporters who always cover the economic news or who always c over the sports news.  You might watch a TV newscast and ask your friend ab out a story; he may say, “Oh, the newscast I watched didn’t cover that story, ” they didn’t describe it, didn’t talk about it.  A “newscast,” I should  add, is just a news broadcast – a news show.

So, I began to cover news events, getting my first bylines.  A “byline” (byline) is the line in the newspaper that says who wrote the story: “This was written by John Smith; this was written by Carl Bernstein.”  That’s a byline; it’s a little line below the headline that tells you who wrote this story.  Often, news stories have several reporters working on it; sometimes at the end of the news story it will say, “The following people also contributed,” or helped wr ite this story.

 “I can’t tell you how excited I was to see my name in prin t for the first time!” I say. “To be in print” means to be published, something that  is in a published document, such as a newspaper, a magazine, a book – things that other people can look at.  We call that being in print.  “Print,” h owever, has other meanings in English.  You know where to find those, in our Learni ng Guide.

I continue by saying that since then (since I was in college) , I’ve worked at several newspapers.  I started out at the bottom (meanin g in the lowest position of the newspaper), writing obituaries and news briefs.   When you go to work for a newspaper, the reporters with the least amount of expe rience, typically the youngest ones – the ones that just started working there,  are given the job of writing obituaries of famous people – even before the y die!  The newspaper starts preparing the obituary because, of course, when a person dies you want to report it in the next edition – the next day, typically, of a daily newspaper, and so you need to have that information prepared.  So for e xample, when a famous actor or politician dies, the newspaper already has in i ts files – it already has written – the basic obituary.  They may add a few things,  change a few things to make sure it is up to date.  “Obituaries” are descriptio ns of people who have died; sometimes we call them “obits” (obit).  An obit is the same as an obituary.  A “news briefs” is a very short, usually one paragraph article  about something. Sometimes in newspapers they want to report news that isn ’t necessarily that important, so they put little one paragraph descriptio ns of these news items inside the newspapers somewhere, and that’s what a new s brief is.  “To be brief” means to be short, so a news brief is a short – very short n ews article.  That’s what a, again, new reporter would start working on in  a newspaper.

“Then,” I say, “I got a regular beat.”  A “beat” is ei ther a general topic that you are always assigned to.  So, I mentioned earlier about thos e who write for the sports section, well, some reporters will always write about bas eball, some reporters will always write about football, others about tennis, and so  forth, depending on how big the newspaper is.  A “beat” can also refer to a ge ographic area.  In a city like Los Angeles, there might be one person that covers the n ews on the West Side – on the west part of the city, someone else who covers the downtown news, someone else who covers the San Fernando Valley, and so f orth.  These would all be beats.

I say that I also wrote some features and investigative rep orts.  A “feature” is short for a feature article; it’s a main story, usually a longer story about some news topic or about some person.  I say also that I’ve writ ten investigative reports.  “Investigative reports” are those that requir e usually a lot of research, sometimes months of research, often related to somethin g that is secret,

 something perhaps that the government is doing.  Usually only the more experienced news reporters work on investigative pieces, or stories.  I say also I’ve even written the occasional editorial.  An “editori al” is an opinion piece; it’s an article in the newspaper that gives your opinion.  It’s n ot focused on giving just the facts.  We hope that most newspapers give us, in the r egular news section, the facts and interpretation, not opinion.  That doesn ’t always happen, however. Notice here I say “the occasional,” meaning not very often,  every once in a while. I visit the occasional beach here in Southern California ; that means I go to a few beaches, but not very many and not that often.

Finally I say, “What next?  You never know in the newspap er business, but I’m shooting for a Pulitzer!”  “To shoot for (something)” i s a phrasal verb meaning to try to do, to try to get, to try to have something tha t is difficult but not impossible. “Denise is studying all time because she’s shooting for a hi gh score in her medical entrance exam.”  She wants to become a doctor, so she’s shooting for – she’s aiming at – her goal is to get this high score.  I  say that I’m aiming, or shooting for a Pulitzer Prize.  The Pulitzer Prize is the award given to news reporting in the United States for those that have ver y the best news reporters – the very best stories.  These are usually newspapers, at lea st they have been traditionally.  The best stories are given prizes in diff erent categories; so it may be the best sports story, it may be the best investigative st ory, and so forth. Typically, these awards are won by the large newspapers such  as the Wall Street Journal , the New York Times , the Los Angeles Times , the Boston Globe , the Chicago Tribune , the San Francisco Chronicle , even the St. Paul Pioneer Press Dispatch .  The Pulitzer is the most prestigious, most sought-afte r, we could say, award in journalism.  It’s like winning an Oscar if you’r e a movie actor.  I’m not sure what the best award would be for a podcaster; I’l l have to look into that!

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed.

[start of story]

I have always wanted to be a news reporter.  When I was about 10 years old, I would write my own news stories and publish them in my o wn newspaper.  In reality, the newspaper was just a piece of paper on which  I’d written my stories and drew my pictures, but it was my first taste of the pow er of the press.

When I got to college, I worked on the university newspa per and started out as a copy editor, editing stories and writing headlines.  Th en, I began to cover news events, getting my first bylines.  I can’t tell you how excit ed I was to see my name in print for the first time!

 Since then, I’ve worked at several newspapers.  I started o ut at the bottom, writing obituaries and news briefs.  Then, I got a reg ular beat and wrote some features and investigative reports.  I’ve even written t he occasional editorial.

What next?  You never know in the newspaper business, but I’m shooting for a Pulitzer!

[end of story]

The script for this episode was written by Dr. Lucy Tse.





