# Shopping for Produce

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 74: Shopping for Produce.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 574.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  You can go there to learn the secret of life!  You can also download a Learning Guide for this episode that co ntains information, including a complete transcript to help you improve your English even faster.

This episode is called “Shopping for Produce.”  “Produce”  includes fruits and vegetables.  Let’s get started. > On my way home from work, I stopped at the supermarket.  My doctor has been telling me to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables, so I  finally decided to follow her advice.  I resolved to eat better, so I could feel better.  I made a beeline for the produce department.
> First, I looked at some bananas.  Since they ripen off the vine, I picked out some that were already ripe and others that were still gree n.  Next, I looked for some tomatoes.  They looked picked over, but then I saw some org anic tomatoes and decided to give those a try.  Then, I went to look for the spinach.  I found it, but it didn’t look fresh at all.  The leaves were brown and wi lted.  I decided to pass on the spinach and checked out the mushrooms.  The mushrooms di dn’t look any better.  In fact, some were beginning to rot.  I picked  up some lettuce instead and headed for the checkout stand.
> I was feeling pretty good about my new decision to eat b etter.  But then, I passed the cookie aisle.  My resolve weakened.  I spotted my favor ite type of cookies. Before I knew what I was doing, I’d put a bag of those  cookies in my cart.
> I know I should be able to resist impulse buys, especially of things I’m likely to eat all in one sitting, but don’t forget, I’m eating  more fruits and vegetables.  With my new healthy diet, aren’t I allowed to fall off the  wagon now and then?

 Our story begins with me coming home from work.  I decid e to stop at the “supermarket,” which is a large store that sells many types  of food.  A “market” is a general word for a store, especially a story that sell s food.  A supermarket is just a big market.  “My doctor,” I say, “has been telling me to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables.”  “Fresh” is, in this case, an adjective th at means recently picked – recently taken from the trees or the fields where the y were grown.  These are fruits and vegetables that are ready to be eaten or to  be cooked; in other words, they’re not in a can, they’re the actual vegetable right  from the farm.

I say that I was going to eat more fruits and vegetables because my doctor recommended that to me.  I resolved to eat better, so I could feel better.  “To resolve” here means to make a firm decision to change som ething in your behavior, usually to change something in your life.  the noun is “resolution.”  It’s very common for people to make New Year’s resolutions.  Wh en the first of January comes up every year they say, “Okay, I’m going to stop  smoking,” or “This year I’m going to stop eating a pound of chocolate  every day,” something like that.  That’s a resolution; the verb is “to resolve. ”  “To resolve” can also mean to solve a problem or a conflict, an argument, something  like that.

I say next that I made a beeline for the produce depar tment.  The expression “to make a beeline (beeline – one word) for (something)” means to go directly to a particular place or to a particular person without stopp ing to look at or to talk to anyone else; you go directly to that person.  When childre n go to the library, some of them make a beeline for the comic books.  They wal k in the door, and they run over to the comic books; they don’t stop and loo k at anything else. Some men, when they walk into a bar, make a beeline for the beautiful women. Of course, I did not make a beeline for any women; I ma de a beeline for the produce department.  “Produce” means fresh fruits and v egetables; it’s a general term.

First, I looked at some “bananas,” those are yellow pie ces of fruit that are long and they grow on trees – I think.  I say that since bana nas, or because bananas ripen off the vine, I picked some that were already rip e.  “To ripen (ripen) off the vine (vine)” means that they continue to mature and beco me “ripe,” or ready to eat, after they are removed from the plant.  So ther e some fruits, for example, that you can take it off of the tree, like a banana, an d you wait a couple of days, and it will turn from green to yellow indicating it is now ready to eat.  There are some fruits that do not ripen off the vine, meaning you  have to wait until they are ready – until they are ripe before you remove it from the tree or the plant.  A “vine” technically is a plant that grows certain kinds of f ruit.  Grapes, for example,

 and tomatoes, grow on what we call vines.  “To ripen of f the vine,” however, is a general term referring to fruit that matures after it has been picked, or removed from the plant or tree where it was growing.  So beca use bananas ripen off the vine, you can pick those bananas that are still green.  A g reen banana indicates it is not yet ripe.

Next, I looked for some tomatoes.  They looked picked over.  When we say something is “picked over,” we mean that other customers ha ve come and taken the best ones, so the ones that are left are not very goo d.  That’s what it means to be picked over.  Before I forget, the word “green” has other meanings in English, and those are in the Learning Guide.

I say that the tomatoes were picked over, but then I saw so me organic tomatoes. “Organic” is a very popular adjective describing food now adays.  Usually it means that it is grown naturally, without any chemicals, anything that might damage your health.  Organic food is supposed to be mor e healthy because it doesn’t have these different chemicals that are normally u sed when we are farming – and by “we” I mean other people, not me!

Then I look for some spinach, after I get my organic tom atoes.  I found the spinach, but unfortunately it didn’t look fresh at all.   It was old; it was not recently arrived from the farm.  The leaves on the spinach, the p art of the spinach that is flat and large, were brown and wilted.  When we say so mething is “wilted” (wilted), we mean that the leaves of the fruit or vege table are not fresh, they’re weak, they are bent.  For example, lettuce if put in the oven will very quickly wilt with the heat.  Things often wilt in the heat, and that means that they are no longer hard, crisp; they are weak instead, and they star t to look bad, and that’s what happened to leaves of the spinach.

I decided to pass on the spinach.  “To pass on (something)”  here means to decide not to buy or not to use something.  If you’re at  a dinner and someone offers you some hot dogs, and you don’t really like hot d ogs – although I can’t understand why, I love hot dogs!  But you decide, well, hot dogs, they’re not very healthy, so you say to the person, “I think I will pass on the hot dogs,” meaning I’m not going to have any.  “To pass on” has other very d ifferent meanings, and those are in – everyone together – the Learning Guide .

So, I pass on the spinach, and I decide to “check out,” o r go look at (investigate) the mushrooms.  The mushrooms didn’t look any better.  in fact, some of the mushrooms were beginning to rot (rot).  “To rot” is wh en something that is living, like a plant or a vegetable or a body begins to decay and  decompose.  When

 something dies it begins to fall apart, whether it’s a body or a banana.  Usually it begins to have a bad smell and it begins to come apart physically.  So that is the meaning of to rot; it’s when something that was once li ving dies and begins to smell and look ugly.

The mushrooms, I say, didn’t look any better because they were beginning to rot, so I picked up some lettuce – I took some lettuce and I pu t into my cart.  My “cart” is another word for a shopping cart, which is a la rge metal basket on wheels that you use in a store; you push it.  I picked up so me lettuce and put it in my cart, and I then headed for the checkout stand.  “To h ead for” means to go in the direction of.  The “checkout stand” is the part of the grocery store where you pay for your food.

I was feeling pretty good about my new decision to eat b etter.  But then, I passed (I walked by) the cookie aisle.  In a store, you have usua lly several “aisles.” These are basically rows where you have food on both sides,  usually on shelves. So I pass by the cookie aisle, the aisle that had the cookie s in it, and my resolve weakened.  Remember we mentioned “resolve” as being you r decision to do something – to change something.  Here it’s used as a nou n: my resolve weakened.  “To weaken” means to become less strong, to beco me weaker.  I spotted (I saw) my favorite type of cookies.  Before I knew  what I was doing, I’d put a bag of those cookies in my cart.  So, I saw the cooki es, I could not resist them.  I needed the cookies I thought, so I got them an d I put them in my cart.

Finally I say, “I know I should be able to resist impulse buys.”  An “impulse (impulse) buy (buy)” is something that you buy that you wer e not planning on buying.  You did not have the idea before you got to the store, but you saw it and you decided to buy it.  I say, “I know I should be able to  resist impulse buys (meaning not buy those things), especially of things I’m likely to eat all in one sitting.”  “All in one sitting” means all at once, at o ne time.  If you give me a bag of potato chips I will eat them all in one sitting.  “ But,” I say, “don’t forget, I’m eating more fruits and vegetables.  With my new healthy diet, aren’t I allowed to fall off the wagon now and then?”  The expression “to  fall off the wagon” means to resume a bad habit, to start doing something that yo u stopped doing such as, for example, smoking.  If you say, “I’m going to stop smoki ng,” and then two months later you have a cigarette, you’ve fallen off the wagon.  This is often used for people who are alcoholic, stop drinking, but then a  few weeks, or months, or even years later they start drinking again.  They fall of f the wagon.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed.

 [start of story]

On my way home from work, I stopped at the supermarket.  My doctor has been telling me to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables, so I  finally decided to follow her advice.  I resolved to eat better, so I could feel better.  I made a beeline for the produce department.

First, I looked for some bananas.  Since they ripen off the vine, I picked out some that were already ripe and others that were still gree n.  Next, I looked for some tomatoes.  They looked picked over, but then I saw some org anic tomatoes and decided to give those a try.  Then, I went to look for the spinach.  I found it, but it didn’t look fresh at all.  The leaves were brown and wi lted.  I decided to pass on the spinach and checked out the mushrooms.  The mushrooms di dn’t look any better.  In fact, some were beginning to rot.  I picked  up some lettuce instead and headed for the checkout stand.

I was feeling pretty good about my new decision to eat b etter.  But then, I passed the cookie aisle.  My resolve weakened.  I spotted my favor ite type of cookies. Before I knew what I was doing, I’d put a bag of those  cookies in my cart.

I know I should be able to resist impulse buys, especially of things I’m likely to eat all in one sitting, but don’t forget, I’m eating  more fruits and vegetables.  With my new healthy diet, aren’t I allowed to fall off the  wagon now and then?

[end of story]

You should never pass on a script written by our scriptwri ter, the wonderful Dr. Lucy Tse.





