# Discussing Social Class

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 573: Discussing Social Class.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 573.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download the Learning Guide for this episode, a special 8- to 10-page guide we provide for all of our episodes to help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Discussing Social Class.”  It’s a dialogue between Hector and Sophia using a lot of vocabulary related to talking about people at different social and economic levels in a country.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Hector:  Can you believe James?  All evening, he tried to tell me how this country would be better if we had no social classes.  He’s out of his mind.  Sophia:  He was just trying to get a rise out of you.  We all know that the two of you don’t see eye to eye.  Hector:  He thinks that just because he comes from a working-class background, he can criticize anyone who is middle class or upper class.  I just can’t stand his holier-than-thou attitude.  Sophia:  He knows you, and he knows which buttons to push to get you worked up.  I don’t think he was serious when he said he thought class warfare was a good idea.  Hector:  Well, he was downright insulting.  He talks as though we have no sense of social responsibility.  We do our share for the poor.  What more does he want from me?  Sophia:  I think he has a chip on his shoulder, because his parents are blue collar and he now lives in a white-collar world.  He feels he has to stand up for the marginalized people in our society. 