# Being Generous and Stingy

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 506: Being Generous and Stingy.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 506.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode, an 8- to 10-page guide that we provide for all of our current episodes that gives you some additional help in improving your English.  This episode is called “Being Generous and Stingy.”  It’s a dialogue between Britney and Salvador using a lot of vocabulary describing how people use their money.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Britney:  I was thinking of hitting up Jane for a little loan.  You know her better than I do.  What are the chances she’ll spot me a couple hundred dollars until next month?  Salvador:  I think that’s a pipe dream.  I wouldn’t exactly call her a cheapskate, but she’s not known for her generosity.  Britney:  What about Francke?  He’s rolling in it.  He could easily part with a couple hundred bucks without giving it a second thought.  Salvador:  You’ve got your work cut out for you if you think you can borrow money from Francke.  He’s always been a penny-pincher and he always will be.    Britney:  Okay, then help me think.  Who do we know who isn’t stingy?  Who do we know who is big-hearted and charitable?  Salvador:  What the heck.  Here’s $150 to tide you over until your next payday.    Britney:  Wow, thanks!  You know, another $100 would really come in handy.  Salvador:  I really think you should quit while you’re ahead.  [end of dialogue] 