# Shopping for Warm-Weather Clothes

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 599: Shopping for Warm-Weather Clothes.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 599.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Download this episode’s Learning Guide, an 8- to 10-page guide that contains the complete transcript, as well as the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, cultural notes, comprehension questions, and more.  All of that is found in the Learning Guide that we have for all of our current episodes.  This episode is a dialogue between Spencer and Lauren.  We’ll find Spencer and Lauren using a lot of vocabulary that would be related to hot or warm weather, things that you might wear in the summertime for example.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Spencer:  I would love to see you in this outfit: a tank top and a miniskirt.  Lauren:  No way!  I wouldn’t look anything like that mannequin.  I’m too shy and I’d make a fool of myself wearing such revealing clothes.    Spencer:  That’s where you’re wrong.  You would look great on the beach in that outfit with a bikini underneath.  Lauren:  I haven’t worn a bikini in years.  I always wear a one-piece now.  In fact, I’d feel more comfortable in a T-shirt, cut-offs, and flip-flops.  Spencer:  Why would you want to hide that figure?  If you want to do that, why don’t you just wear this Hawaiian shirt and these board-shorts.  Then no one will know you’re a woman!  Lauren:  Don’t get mad.  Okay, you can pick out an outfit for me and I promise to wear it for you.  Okay?  Spencer:  Fine, but I’m warning you: I want to see some skin! 