# Starting a Blog

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 15: Starting a Blog.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 515.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

This podcast has its own website.  You may know it, it’s e slpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster.  You can become an ESL Podcast member  on our website. We’re able to provide this audio for you for free becau se of our members, so do consider becoming one by going to eslpod.com.

This episode is called “Starting a Blog.”  It’s a story th at uses a lot of common vocabulary that we use when talking about weblogs or, as they’re commonly called, blogs.  Let’s get started. > I’ve been thinking about starting a blog for a long ti me now, and after talking to my friend Traver, a popular blogger, I’ve decided to take the leap.
> Traver got me started with a basic template, but I want ed to customize the blog to give it my own flavor before launching it.  I alrea dy have my first few posts ready to go, and I plan to update it a few times a we ek.
> Traver told me that it may take a little time for my bl og to catch on and become known in the blogosphere.  He suggested I do some basic se lf-promotion.  He told me to register my website with the major search eng ines and to swap links with other bloggers writing on similar topics.  He gave me some other advice to increase hits and I’m taking it all to heart.
> I can’t wait to get my first comments and to start talking  to other people about our common interest: Our love of cats!

Our story begins with me saying that I’m thinking about starting a “blog,” a special kind of website that has information that you can easily update – you can easily put on the website.  Blogs usually have content that  is added at least a

 couple times a week, or once week, sometimes several times a  day.  So, I’m thinking about starting a blog, and I talk to my friend  Traver, a popular blogger.  A “blogger” is someone who has a blog; it’s the person who  has the blog.

I say that I’ve decided to take the leap.  The expression “ to take the leap” (leap) means to begin to do something that’s new and perhaps u nfamiliar to you; you don’t have a lot of experience, but you’re just going to  start and do it anyway. You’re going to take the leap.  A “leap” is normally a  jump from one point to another, where you physically go up into the air.  But here, it just means to get started.

Traver got me started with a basic template.  A “templa te” (template) is a model for creating, in this case, other documents or other web pages.  A template, in general, is sort of like a model that you use to start something.  So for example, you might have a fax machine and you find on the web a f ax template.  It’s a form that has all of the information that you can then add  to – add your own personal information to.  That would be a template.  Websites,  especially blog sites, often give you some templates so you don’t have to create the sit e all by yourself.

I say that I wanted to customize my blog.  “To customize (so mething)” is to change something so that it’s different from everyone el se’s.  So, you may use a blog template, but you want to use your own pictures or you want to change the way that the writing appears – the font.  That would be to customize it, to make it your own.  I say I want to customize the blog to give it m y own flavor.  Here, “flavor” means my own style, my own characteristic, my own t aste.  Normally, we use the word “flavor” to talk about food, but here I just mean my own particular style.

I want to give the blog my own flavor before launching it.  For some reason, we use the verb “to launch” when we are talking about putt ing up a new website; we also use it in business to talk about starting a new proje ct: “We’re going to launch a new kind of deodorant.”  “Deodorant” is what you put  underneath your arms so that you don’t smell so bad.  Taking a shower also helps!   Anyway, to launch a new product or a new service means to start something, so here I’m talking about starting my blog by launching it.

I already have my first few posts ready to go.  A “post,” w hen we’re talking about a blog, is what we might also call an “entry” (entry).  It’s a small section of text that you add; it’s the new piece of information.  So I may type up a couple of paragraphs and then put it on my blog with today’s date .  That would be one post, and then tomorrow I may add a couple of paragrap hs about a different topic.  That would be another post.  So, a post is each section of your blog – it’s

 each entry of your blog.  “Post” actually has a couple of different meanings, so take a look at that Learning Guide for some more expla nations.

I say that I plan to update my blog a few times a week.   “To update” means to make it more current, bring it up to date, give inform ation that is new.

Traver told me that it may take a little time for my bl og to catch on.  “To catch on” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to become popular, so mething that is used by or done by many different people.  We often talk abo ut products – things that are sold that may catch on.  For example, cell phones.  Fi fteen years ago very few people had mobile phones (or cellular phones), but  when the price became lower and lower – when it became cheaper and cheaper to buy a cell phone, and the phones became smaller, then cell phones in many countr ies caught on.  They became popular.  Slang expressions is another example of so mething that would catch on – that would become popular

Traver said that it may take a little time for my blog to catch on and become known in the blogosphere.  The term “blogosphere” refe rs to all of the blogs on the Internet.  It is sort of related to another word,  “atmosphere,” which refers to everything around our planet – the air around the pla net.  Blogosphere refers to all the blogs throughout the world.

Traver suggested that I do some basic self-promotion.  “T o promote” means to publicize, to let other people know about your product o r service.  “To self- promote” means to promote yourself, to let other peopl e know about you.  “Self- promotion,” then, is letting other people know about something that you are doing; in this case, your blog.

Traver told me to register my website – to send in my we bsite information to the major or most important search engines.  A “search engin e” is something like Google, Yahoo, AltaVista; they’re websites that help you  find other information on the Internet.  He also suggested I swap (swap) links.  A “ link” on the website is something that you click on that takes you to another websi te or takes you to another file that is on the website.  To “swap” means to exchange; I give you something and you give me something back.  This is a popul ar way of letting other people know about your website, is to swap to lin ks.  I’ll put your website’s link on my website, and you put mine on yours.

Traver also gave me other advice to increase hits.  A “hi t” on a website is when someone comes to your website – when something is visited o n your website. That’s not the complete technical definition, but it’s cl ose enough for our

 purposes.  “Hit” has several different meanings in English  that are not related to a website; take a look at the Learning Guide for some mor e explanations of those.

I say that I’m taking all of this advice to heart – I’m t aking it all to heart.  The expression “to take (something) to heart” means to listen  carefully to what someone is saying, to think about it seriously, to consider it seriously.

Finally I say that I can’t wait to get my first comments an d to start talking to other people.  Your “comments” are messages that other people  put on your website. So, they come to your website, and if the blog allows it , they put their own ideas and then they post them – they put them on your websit e.  They can comment on what you are saying; it’s a way of starting a conversation,  perhaps, with people who are reading your blog.  And what is my blog going to be about?  It’s going to be about my love of cats, so you know that this story is defin itely fiction!

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed. > I’ve been thinking about starting a blog for a long ti me now, and after talking to my friend Traver, a popular blogger, I’ve decided to take the leap.
> Traver got me started with a basic template, but I want ed to customize the blog to give it my own flavor before launching it.  I alrea dy have my first few posts ready to go, and I plan to update it a few times a we ek.
> Traver told me that it may take a little time for my bl og to catch on and become known in the blogosphere.  He suggested I do some basic se lf-promotion.  He told me to register my website with the major search eng ines and to swap links with other bloggers writing on similar topics.  He gave me some other advice to increase hits and I’m taking it all to heart.
> I can’t wait to get my first comments and to start talking  to other people about our common interest: Our love of cats!

The script for this episode was written by the popular bl ogger, Dr. Lucy Tse.





