# Taking Minutes of a Meeting

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 00: Taking Minutes of a Meeting.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 500.  Can you believe it, 500 episodes of ESL Podcast!  Actually, if you include our English Cafés, there’s been more than 700 episodes.  Thanks to all of you for listening.  I’m Jeff McQuillan, your host, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Lear ning Guide for this episode to help you improve your English even faster.

This episode is called “Taking Minutes of a Meeting.”  It ’s a business related episode that will use vocabulary connected to taking notes – official notes at a business meeting.  This will not be a dialogue, just me telling a short story.  Let’s get started. > I was absent at last month’s meeting, so imagine my surpri se when I found out that I had been elected the committee’s secretary!  As pa rt of my duties, I have to take minutes at each meeting.  Taking minutes means I ha ve to pay attention and try my best to transcribe what each person says, or at le ast do my best to summarize.
> At yesterday’s meeting, the chair called the meeting to o rder and I conducted a roll call.  Then, the chair went over the agenda and w e discussed old business. We needed to vote on a couple of proposals from the past  meeting, and it was my job to ask for a show of hands of those in favor of a nd those opposed to each one.
> After that was done, we went on to new business.  We ta lked about the first item of business for 20 minutes when someone suggested that we  table the topic until the following meeting, and the participants agreed.  After another long discussion about the second agenda item, we ran out of time.  the chair adjourned the meeting.
> Phew!  That first meeting taught me a very good lesson.  Never miss a meeting when new officers are being chosen!
> I begin our story by saying that I was absent at last month ’s meeting.  “Absent” is the opposite of “present,” it means you’re not there.  If you’re present, you are there.  For example: “I was present at my wedding.”  I  was actually there at my own wedding – amazing, I know!  “Absent” would be the opposite, that you were not there: “I was often absent from school.”  I say, “I w as absent at last month’s meeting,” meaning I wasn’t there, “so imagine my surpr ise when I found out that I had been elected the committee’s secretary!”  “To be elect ed” means chosen, usually through a vote for a particular job or position .  In the United States, we elect our president; we vote for him or her.

In this case, I got elected when I wasn’t at the meetin g, meaning I didn’t know they were going to vote for me, for the committee posit ion of secretary.  A “secretary” is normally a person at a meeting who writes down notes about what happened, and then types up those notes, puts them in a  Word document or prints them out, and gives them to people, usually at the next meeting.  Those notes are called “minutes.”  “Minutes” also refers to t ime; 60 seconds is one minute.  But here, when we use “minutes” (plural) in  talking about a meeting, we’re talking about notes from the last meeting that sa y what we did, what we decided, and so forth.

I say as part of my duties, I have to take minutes at each m eeting.  We use the verb “to take” when we talk about writing down notes ab out the meeting: “to take minutes.”  I then say that taking minutes means I have to pay attention and try my best to transcribe what each person says, or at least do my best to summarize.  “To transcribe” means to write down everythin g that is said, or to record everything that is said.  Normally, “transcribe” mea ns to write it; you could record it first and then write it down.  When we do t hese episodes of ESL Podcast, after we finish we go back and we transcribe them ; we write down everything that is said, and then we put that in our Le arning Guide.  That is what is happening here, I’m supposed to transcribe what peopl e say at the meeting. Now of course, it would be impossible to write down ever ything that everyone says, so normally what we do in writing up minutes is to su mmarize.  “To summarize” means to just say what was important, give the basic information without necessarily writing down everything that everyone said, so that’s what I have to do as the committee secretary.

At yesterday’s meeting, the chair called the meeting to o rder and I conducted a roll call.  The “chair” is the person who leads the meet ing; you can also call them the “chairperson,” or the “chairwoman,” or the “chairm an.”  Sometimes they’re just called “the chair.”  This is the person who runs the meeting – who leads the

 meeting.  “Chair” has a few other meanings in English;  take a look at our Learning Guide for some additional explanations.  So, the chair called the meeting to order.  “To call a meeting to order” mea ns to formally start a meeting, to ask everyone to be quiet so that they can begin the m eeting.  That’s “to call the meeting to order,” it’s what the chair does, or the person who is running the meeting – who is the boss of the meeting, you could say.

So, the chair called the meeting to order – the chair  began the meeting, and I, as secretary, conducted a roll call.  A “roll (roll) call”  is a way to determine who is present at the meeting by calling out or naming each pe rson: “Jeff McQuillan…Rob Smith…Barack Obama,” and so forth.  If the person is there, you write down that they are there.  Usually in a classroo m, for example, if you take roll, or conduct a roll call (notice, once again, we  use the verb “to take” – “to take roll”), you would say “present.”  So, Jeff McQuillan would say “present,” Barack Obama would say “present,” and so forth, meaning you are there. Sometimes, if it’s a small meeting, you just look around  and see who’s there and you write down everyone who is at the meeting.

Then, the chair went over the agenda.  “To go over,” here, means to review, to talk about, to give the main information.  The “agend a” is the list of things that you are going to talk about in the meeting and the or der in which you will talk about them: first we’re going to talk about the budg et – finances, then we’re going to talk about making technology changes in our offi ce, then we’re going to talk about getting rid of Jeff McQuillan – because he doesn’t do his work!  Those would be items on an agenda, things that you would ta lk about.  So, the agenda is a list of the things you are going to talk about at t hat meeting.  The agenda is usually divided between old business and new business.  “Old  business” are things that you’ve talked about before but you need to continue talking about, or perhaps make a decision about.  “New business” are new top ics, things that have not been discussed before in your meeting.  Usually, you sta rt with old business.

We needed to vote on a couple of “proposals” (a couple o f ideas) from the past meeting, and it was my job to ask for a show of hands of those in favor and those opposed to each one.  Let’s talk about what that means.  We needed to vote (to take a vote) on a couple of proposals from the past meeti ng; it was my job to ask for a show of hands.  A “show of hands” is a way that you can vote, with a small group of people usually.  Each person who wants to say “ye s” raises their hand. This, of course, is not a secret vote because you can see – in deed, you must see who is raising their hand in order to count the votes.  So, a show of hands is a way of taking a vote.  Usually they ask people who are “i n favor,” meaning who want to vote “yes,” to raise their hands first, then the y say those that are opposed should raise their hands.  So, “All those in favor, rai se your hand.  All those

 opposed, raise your hand,” and then you count and you se e which one is more. If you are going to just say your vote out loud, we use the words “aye” (aye) and “nay” (nay): “All those in favor, say ‘aye’.”  That means if you are wanting to vote “yes,” instead of raising your hand you would just say the w ord “aye.”  “All those in favor – aye.”  Those “opposed,” those that want to vo te “no” then say the word “nay.”  That, then, is if you are going to take what we  would call a “voice vote,” voting by people just speaking.  In my meeting, however, w e are voting by raising our hands.

After the vote was done, we went on to new business.  We  talked about the first “item” (the first thing) for 20 minutes when someone su ggested that we table the topic until the following meeting, and the “participa nts” (the people at the meeting) agreed.  “To table,” as a verb, means to dela y or postpone, to stop talking about something now but agree to talk about it  again at a future meeting.

After another long discussion about the second agenda ite m, we “ran out of time,” meaning we didn’t have any more time left to t alk more.  The chair adjourned the meeting.  “To adjourn” means to officia lly end the meeting, to let people know that the meeting is over and they can now l eave.

Finally I say, “Phew!” (phew).  That sound means that som ething is over, or that you are relieved; you are happy that some difficult thi ng has ended.  I say, “That first meeting taught me a very good lesson.  Never miss a meeting when new officers are being chosen!”  An “officer” is someone who h as an official position in an organization.  Usually, organizations have a president , a vice president, a “treasurer” (someone who takes care of the money), and a  “secretary” (someone who does the paperwork, including taking minutes at a me eting).  I’m saying here that I don’t ever want to miss a meeting when the grou p is going to elect new officers, so I can avoid being elected.

If you’re interested in business meetings, we have a special  course called “English for Business Meetings,” which you can find on our  website at eslpod.com.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a normal spe ed.

[start of story]

I was absent at last month’s meeting, so imagine my surpri se when I found out that I had been elected the committee’s secretary!  As pa rt of my duties, I have to take minutes at each meeting.  Taking minutes means I ha ve to pay attention

 and try my best to transcribe what each person says, or at le ast do my best to summarize.

At yesterday’s meeting, the chair called the meeting to o rder and I conducted a roll call.  Then, the chair went over the agenda and w e discussed old business. We needed to vote on a couple of proposals from the past  meeting, and it was my job to ask for a show of hands of those in favor of a nd those opposed to each one.

After that was done, we went on to new business.  We ta lked about the first item of business for 20 minutes when someone suggested that we  table the topic until the following meeting, and the participants agreed.  After another long discussion about the second agenda item, we ran out of time.  the chair adjourned the meeting.

Phew!  That first meeting taught me a very good lesson.  Never miss a meeting when new officers are being chosen!

[end of story]

We’re lucky that our scriptwriter was not absent today; sh e is Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you, Lucy.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan.  Than k you for listening.  Come back and listen to us next time on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and produ ced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan, copyright 2009 by the Center  for Educational Development.

