# Describing Men¡¦s Bodies

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 5 27: Describing Men’s Bodies. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 527.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California. 

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Lea rning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, comprehension questions, cultural  notes, and a complete transcript of this episode. 

This episode is called “Describing Men’s Bodies.”  It’s a di alogue between Justin and Katrina talking about the way that men and women look at their bodies. Let’s get started. 

[start of dialogue] 

Justin:  What are you ogling at? 

Katrina:  I’m watching those guys working across the street .   

Justin:  Those construction workers?   

Katrina:  Yeah, those prime examples of manhood.  The re’s not a flabby gut in the bunch.   

Justin:  I’m pretty sure they wouldn’t appreciate you watch ing them as though they were pieces of meat.  Hasn’t anyone ever told you no t to objectify the opposite sex? 

Katrina:  What?  I’m not objectifying anybody.  I’m just  admiring their six-packs and guns.  Look at those long, lean bodies. 

Justin:  Stop it!  It’s demeaning, and on behalf of a ll men out there, I’m really offended.  It’s disgusting. 

Katrina:  Is it disgusting to have a picture of Megan F ox on the wall in your office? 

Justin:  That’s different!    

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 6 Katrina:  How? 

Justin:  It’s her personality I admire. 

Katrina:  You could’ve fooled me. 

[end of dialogue] 

Justin begins by saying to Katrina, “What are you ogling a t?”  “To ogle (ogle) (someone),” or “to ogle at (someone)” means to look a t someone in a way that shows that you are interested in them, possibly even sexuall y interested in them. It’s usually something that someone doesn’t want you to do .  Often it’s done with someone you don’t know, but it could be someone you know  as well.  You don’t want your college professor ogling at his female student s, for example. 

Katrina say s, “I’m watching those guys working across the street.”  So, Katrina is looking at some men, presumably attractive men, who are w orking across the street from where she is.  Justin says, “Those construction wo rkers?”  A “construction worker” is a person whose job it is to hel p build new buildings or roads or bridges, someone who works outdoors, someone who does physical labor – physical work, building or constructing something.  “To construct” means to build, so we have “construction workers.” 

Katrina says , “Yeah, those prime examples of manhood.”  Something  that is “prime” is something that is the best.  So, a “prime exa mple” would be a perfect or very good example of something.  During the 1980s, I  was a prime example of what my father used to call a “professional student.”  That’s sort of a joking term; someone who’s a professional student is someone who stays in school, usually college, for a very long time.  I was in school for almost  eight years finishing my bachelor’s degree, which is normally finishe d in four.  I’m not too smart, you see! So, I became a professional student.  It’s a long story; I ’ll tell you some other time. 

Getting back to our dialogue, Katrina says those men – th ose construction workers are “prime examples of manhood.”  “Manhood” is the characteristics of a man, usually someone who is strong, someone who’s responsibl e.  “Manhood” can refer also to the physical attractiveness, perhaps, of a man.  Katrina seems more interested in the physical features, or physical aspect s of these men.  She says, “There’s not a flabby (flabby) gut (gut) in the bun ch.”  “To be flabby” means to have too much fat.  If your arms are flabby, they have a lot of fat on them, and if you move them quickly you may see the fat move.  That’s to  be flabby.  A “gut”  

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 7 is another word for your stomach, the middle part of yo ur body in front of your body – or rather, in the front part of your body.  You r stomach, what we would sometimes call your “tummy,” this is the gut, this is the middle part of your body. The word “ gut” has a couple of different meanings in English; ta ke a look at the Learning Guide for some additional explanations.  To s ay someone has a “flabby gut” means that perhaps they’ve been drinking too much b eer, they’ve been eating too many doughnuts or McDonalds hamburgers, and t hey have a lot of fat in front in their stomach area.  A “bunch” means a gro up of people or a group of things.  So, Katrina says, “There’s not a flabby gut in the bunch.”  She means that none of the men have a flabby gut, meaning they’r e in good physical condition.  

Justin says, “I’m pretty sure that they wouldn’t appreciate you watching them as though they were pieces of meat.”  Justin is saying that t hese men, if they knew that Katrina was looking at them just for their physical aspect – just for their physical appearance, would not appreciate it; they would not want that to happen.  That’s what Justin says!  “Pieces of meat” is an exp ression here to mean only for the physical aspect – only for the physical beauty of someone.  It’s a negative way of describing this.  We don’t want to l ook at people as though they were pieces of meat; they’re human beings with perso nalities, and minds, and so forth.  But, Justin is saying that that’s the way K atrina is looking at these men.  Justin says, “Hasn’t anyone ever told you not to obje ctify the opposite sex?”  “To objectify” (objectify) means to treat a person – a human being as though they were an object; as though they were just a p hysical thing, and not referring or not being concerned about their personal ity – who they were inside, and so forth.   

Now, there’s a little bit of a switch – a little bit o f a reversal happening here; things are a little backwards than they would normally be .  Normally, we think about men objectifying women, looking at women just for  their physical beauty. Here, we have Katrina looking at the men and objectif ying them, making them as though they were just physical objects.  The “opposite sex” would be whatever you’re not, so if you’re a man, the opposite sex would be  a woman; if you’re a woman, the opposite sex would be a man. 

So, Justin says, “Hasn’t anyone ever told you not to objecti fy the opposite sex?” – not to do that.  Katrina says, “What?  I’m not object ifying anybody.  I’m just admiring their six-packs and guns.  Look at those long, lean bodies.”  Katrina uses a couple of different informal expressions in describin g a man’s body: The first one is a “six-pack.”  A “six-pack” normally refers to a  way of buying beer, where you buy six cans of beer and they’re held together b y a plastic strap.  This is called a “six-pack.”  But here, the word – or expression  “six-pack” refers to the  

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 8 abdominal muscles of a man who is very healthy, very athleti c, very strong. “Abdominal” refers, once again, to the stomach – the stomach area, and if you have a very strong man who exercises his abdominal muscles you ca n see the six muscles under the skin, which is considered to be very healt hy, very athletic looking.  So, a man’s six-pack would be his abdominal muscl es that were in good shape – good condition.  Even though we normally use the  word “six-pack” to refer to beer, if you drink a lot of six-packs you probabl y won’t have a six-pack. That is, if you drink a lot of beer, you won’t have tho se abdominal muscles showing.  “Guns,” here, means the biceps, which are the large muscles in your upper arm.  They’re between your elbow and your shoulde r, and if you take your arm and you put it at a 90-degree angle – at a right  angle – and you stress your muscles, you will see your biceps.  And of course, for a man  to have big biceps is to be considered, usually, more attractive.  Arnold Schwar zenegger, our government, has big biceps – although I’m not sure he’s a ttractive!  “Lean” means with very little fat.  Someone who doesn’t have a  lot of fat on their body is lean.  We also talk about pieces of meat, such as beef, be ing lean, not having a lot of fat on them.  So, Katrina says that she’s admirin g the men’s six-packs and guns.  “Guns” has a couple of different meanings however;  take a look at the Learning Guide for some additional explanations.  “Gun s” is also a pretty informal expression; it would probably be used more as a joke than anything else. 

Katrina says, “Look at those long, lean bodies.”  Justin sa ys, “Stop it!  It’s demeaning, and on behalf of all men out there, I’m really offended.  It’s disgusting.”  Something that is “demeaning” is somethin g that is embarrassing or shameful, something that is showing less respect to the ot her person than they should.  To be “demeaning” to  someone means not to treat them with respect. Justin says it’s demeaning to look at men that way, “and on  behalf of all men out there, I’m really offended.”  “On behalf of” means spe aking for a larger group of people, representing, in this case, all men.  That’s wh at Justin is trying to do here.  He says, “I’m really offended,” meaning he’s insu lted; he’s angered by something that someone has said or done.  Of course, most men would not be offended if a woman looked at him and thought that h e was attractive, but again, there’s a little bit of a reversal going on here.  Justi n says, “It’s disgusting.” Something that’s “disgusting” is something that is unatt ractive, unpleasant, makes you feel uncomfortable or dirty, something that is g ross.  All of these would be ways of describing “disgusting.”  It’s a very negat ive way of describing something.  If you go to a restaurant and you say, “Oh, the soup was disgusting,” that means it was absolutely terrible, it was horrible;  the worst you’ve ever had, perhaps.  

Katrina says, “Is it disgusting to have a picture of Megan Fox on the wall in your office?”  She’s talking to Justin, who has a picture of a  famous actress, someone  

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 9 who’s very – considered by some men, not me – sexually attract ive, a woman by the name of Megan Fox.  Well, Justin has a picture of t his woman on the wall in his office.  Katrina is saying that, well, Justin does exact ly what he says Katrina should not do.  

Justin says, “That’s different!”  Katrina says, “How (how is it different)?”  Justin says, “It’s her personality I admire.”  “Personality” is one ’s character, the way one treats other people, the way one talks to other people,  the way you think about things; all of these are part of your personality.  Of course, Justin here is really making a joke, because he doesn’t have a picture of her if he admires her personality, he has a picture of her because he thinks tha t she’s attractive.  

Katrina says, “You could’ve fooled me.”  “The expression “yo u could’ve fooled me” is a sarcastic phrase used when you don’t really believe  what someone else says.  Someone says, “I really love going to the dentist,” w hen you know that person hates going to the dentist, you could say, “Oh we ll, you could’ve fooled me.  It looks like you had a horrible time at the dent ist last year.” 

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a norma l speed.  

[start of dialogue] 

Justin:  What are you ogling at? 

Katrina:  I’m watching those guys working across the street.    

Justin:  Those construction workers?   

Katrina:  Yeah, those prime examples of manhood.  The re’s not a flabby gut in the bunch.   

Justin:  I’m pretty sure they wouldn’t appreciate you watch ing them as though they were pieces of meat.  Hasn’t anyone ever told you no t to objectify the opposite sex? 

Katrina:  What?  I’m not objectifying anybody.  I’m just  admiring their six-packs and guns.  Look at those long, lean bodies. 

Justin:  Stop it!  It’s demeaning, and on behalf of al l men out there, I’m really offended.  It’s disgusting. 

Katrina:  Is it disgusting to  have a picture of Megan Fox on the wall in your office?   

These materials are copyrighted by the Center for Ed ucational Development (2009).  Posting of these materials on another website or distributing them in any way is prohibited. 10 Justin:  That’s different!   

Katrina:  How? 

Justin:  It’s her personality I admire. 

Katrina:  You could’ve fooled me. 

[end of dialogue]  

On behalf of every one at ESL Podcast, I want to thank the scriptwriter for today’s script, a prime example of a wonderful writer, D r. Lucy Tse.   

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan.  Than k you for listening.  Come back and listen to us next time on ESL Podcast. 

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and produ ced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan, copyright 2009 by the Center  for Educational Development.

