# Having Problems Concentrating

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 663: Having Problems Concentrating.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 663.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  If you go to our website at eslpod.com you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English.  You can also take a look at our ESL Podcast Store, which has some additional courses in English, and our ESL Podcast Blog.  This episode is called “Having Problems Concentrating.”  “To concentrate” means to focus your attention on something.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Vagner:  Aren’t you supposed to be studying for the driver’s test?    Liesl:  I’m supposed to be, but I keep getting distracted.  Reading this manual is deadly.  Vagner:  I know, but if you don’t study, you’ll never pass the test.  Try to focus.  Liesl:  I’ve tried to keep my mind on the rules of the road, but I’m having trouble concentrating.  My mind keeps wandering and I’m almost ready to throw in the towel for today.    Vagner:  No, you can’t do that.  You have to buckle down and learn what’s in this manual.  I’m here to crack the whip.    Liesl:  What’s in it for you?  What do you care if I pass the driver’s test or not?    Vagner:  You can ask me that?  I’ve been chauffeuring you around since I got my driver’s license and I don’t plan on doing it for one second more than I have to.  Liesl:  All right, all right, I’ll study, but not because you’re telling me to.  Vagner:  Oh, yeah?  Then why? 