# Having Cash Flow Problems

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 668: Having Cash Flow Problems.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 668.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful – a little rainy, but otherwise beautiful Los Angeles, California.  This episode, like all of our episodes, has a Learning Guide.  Go to our website at eslpod.com and download it.  You’ll improve your English much faster by having a transcript, vocabulary, and additional cultural and vocabulary information included in the Guide.  This episode is about business.  It’s about something called “cash flow.”  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Kylie:  I’ve just crunched the numbers and we’re not going to be able to meet payroll next month because of cash flow problems.    Miguel:  That can’t be.  The cash flow projections from last month showed that we’d be fine.  Kylie:  We didn’t anticipate a shortfall in income this month and didn’t set aside enough cash to hedge against a cash flow problem.  Miguel:  What can we do?  We need a stopgap solution now.    Kylie:  Well, we could try to extend our line of credit at the bank.    Miguel:  We’re already overextended at the bank.  I don’t want to push our luck.  Kylie:  The other option is to hold off on paying our suppliers and hope that our income goes up next month, as predicted.  Miguel:  Do you really think we can hold them off for that long?    Kylie:  I’ll have a talk with our biggest suppliers and give them assurances that they’ll get paid.  Let’s just hope they’re not having cash flow problems of their own! 