# Paying an Unexpected Visit

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 601: Paying an Unexpected Visit.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 601.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  If you’d like to support our podcast and keep these audio files coming, you can become a member of ESL Podcast.  If you become a member, you also will get our Learning Guides, an 8- to 10-page guide we provide for all our current episodes that will help you improve your English even faster.  This episode is called “Paying an Unexpected Visit.”  It’s a dialogue between Lorraine and Terrance using a lot of vocabulary that we might associate with or hear for someone who is visiting someone else.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Lorraine:  Hi, this is a surprise.  To what do I owe this pleasure?  Terrance:  Can’t I just drop in on my little sister unannounced to see how she is?  I was just in this neck of the woods and thought I would pay you a visit.  Lorraine:  Sure you were.  Of course, I’m glad to see you, but this is just a little out of the blue.  Terrance:  What do you mean?  Lorraine:  I haven’t seen you in over five months, and you just happened to be in the neighborhood?  Terrance:  Well, I wasn’t exactly in the neighborhood, but I wanted to see my favorite sister.  Lorraine:  Your only sister.  Okay, out with it.  What are you doing here?  Terrance:  Uh, well, I was thinking of taking a year off from school to pursue my art.  I really feel I need to devote some time to my painting to see if I can make it as an artist. 