# Picking a Fight

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 6 21: Picking a Fight.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 621.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English – and i mprove your life in general!

Today’s episode is a story about a man who goes to a bar,  and there is another man at the bar who wants to fight him.  Sounds exciting !  Let’s get started. > I was sitting at my local bar waiting for my friends to a rrive to watch the game. Two guys sitting a few seats away kept giving me strange loo ks, and one of them said, “What are you looking at?”  I looked around to ma ke sure that he was speaking to me, and before I could respond he said, “Yo u want a piece of me? You and what army?  Let’s take it outside.”
> By this time, I realized that this guy was trying to pick a fight with me and I wasn’t sure what to do.  I was hoping that I could make peace w ith him or at least hold him off until my friends got there.
> I said to him, “I’m just sitting over here minding my ow n business.  I’m not trying to get in your face.  I don’t have a problem with you.   Let’s just chill out and I’ll buy you and your friend a drink.”  He didn’t seem to like  what I’d said.
> “Chill out?” he said.  “I don’t need to chill out.  T hose are fighting words.  Let’s take this outside.  I want to see you running with your t ail between your legs.”  He got up and started to walk toward me.
> Just then, my friends arrived.  When the man saw my six frie nds walking toward me, he stopped in his tracks.  I think he was weighing his odds and doubting his own chances.  He turned around and said something to his friend, and then they both got up and walked out the door.
> Our story begins with me sitting at a local bar.  A “lo cal bar” would be a bar in my neighborhood, close to where I live.  A “bar” is, of co urse, a place where you can go and get beer and other alcoholic drinks.

I’m waiting at the bar for my friends; we are going to watch the game.  I don’t say which game; it could be a baseball game, a football g ame, and so forth.  It’s popular in the United States for men, in particular,  to go to what are called “sports bars,” and these are bars that have big televisions that  you can watch sporting events on.

Two guys – two men – are sitting are sitting a few seats away.  They kept giving me strange looks, meaning they kept looking at me, they co ntinued to look at me for a long time with strange looks.  The expression on their faces, the way they held their body, it was unusual, odd, strange.  Final ly, one of them said to me, “What are you looking at?”  This expression – this question  could be just a way of asking someone what they are looking at, but it’s the way that you pronounce it that changes the meaning.  There’s a difference between  “What are you looking at?” and “What are you  looking at?”  In the second case, “What are you  looking at?” it’s meant to express a kind of anger.  You think the other person is looking at you in some critical way, that the other person doesn ’t like you and so you want to defend yourself.  It’s the sort of thing you wo uld say if you wanted to fight someone.  So you wouldn’t want to say this to, say, someone  who is bigger and stronger than you.

Well, this man at the bar doesn’t like me – in the stor y, that is.  I say that I look around to make sure that he is speaking to me, and befo re I can respond he says, again another expression that you would use to start a  fight, “You want a piece of me?”  This is another way of saying do you want to fight me.  “You want a piece of me?  You and what army?”  “You and what ar my?” is another informal phrase showing that you don’t believe that the other pe rson can beat you in a fight, that this person would need other people – a l ot of other people.  It can be used for anything, not just a fight, any situation wher e you don’t think the person is able to do what they say they can do.  Finally this man  says, “Let’s take it outside.”  “To take (something) outside” is another info rmal expression used to indicate that you want to fight – to physically fight this other person.  You want to leave the bar, or leave that room and go outside and h ave a fight.  So, all three of

 these expressions are ones that you would find in situatio ns where someone was trying to pick (pick) a fight.  “To pick a fight” means to try to get another person to fight you, especially someone who isn’t really bothering you, someone who just wants to leave themselves alone, but you’re so angry you feel like fighting someone.  This doesn’t happen to me, but apparently to some men it does.

By the way, the expression “to take (something) outside,”  or words in that expression, can be used in other ways in English.  Take a l ook at our Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

I continue the story by saying, “By this time (meaning by the time this has happened), I realized that this guy was trying to pick a f ight with me and I wasn’t sure what to do.  I was hoping that I could make peace w ith him.”  “To make peace” (peace) means try to calm down a difficult situatio n, a tense situation, to perhaps forgive the other person so that there are no l onger any bad feelings between you.  I tried to make peace with him, or I was hoping to make peace with him, or at least hold him off until my friends go t there.  “To hold (someone) off” is another two-word phrasal verb meaning to delay someone, to prevent someone from doing something for a certain length of time, usually until something else happens.  This could also be used in a mili tary situation.  The famous group of Spartans in ancient Greece, the soldiers from Sparta, held off the Persians at Thermopylae to allow the Athenians to b uild a better defense and defend the city of Athens.  “Go tell the Spartans, you p asserby, that here, obedient to their word, we lie.”  That is a famous li ne written about the Spartans who died at Thermopylae by one of the great poets of that day.  A “passerby” is someone who is just walking by.  And so the soldiers are sa ying go tell the Spartans (our people back in our city of Sparta) that he re (at Thermopylae), obedient to their word (meaning we are doing what they asked us to do), we lie. In this case, their bodies are there – they lie there.  “Go tell the Spartans, you passerby, that here, obedient to their word, we lie.”  This has nothing to do with our episode, but it does have to do with the expression “to hold (someone) off.”

Well, I’m hoping to hold off these two men until my friends arrive, so I say to the man, “I’m just sitting over here minding my own business.”   “To be minding your own business” means that you are not bothering anyone el se; you are not interfering or paying attention to anyone else, you are just focusing on yourself.  I say that I’m not trying to get in your face.  “To get in  (someone’s) face” is an informal expression meaning to bother, to annoy, to ma ke another person angry often by asking them personal questions or perhaps standing  too close to them. I say that I don’t have a problem with you.  “Let’s just chill out.”  “To chill out” is a phrasal verb meaning to relax, to be calm.  It’s very in formal.

 I tell him that I will buy him and his friend a drink,  but he’s angry.  He says, “Chill out?  I don’t need to chill out.  Those are fighting words.”  In other words, those are things you would say when you want someone to figh t you.  “You want a piece of me?  Let’s take it outside.  What are you lookin g at?”  Those are all examples of fighting words.  Well, this gentleman thinks that telling him to chill out is an invitation to fight.  He says, “Let’s take this outside.  I want to see you running with your tail between your legs.”  The expressio n “your tail (tail) between your legs” means that you are scared and frightened, sor t of like a dog who’s running away.  You are a coward; you are not brave.

Then, my friends arrive, and when the man sees my friends he stops in his tracks (tracks).  “To stop in your tracks” means to immediately stop  what you are doing, to stop moving often because you are surprised or shocked.  Well, this man stops in his tracks.  Then I say, “I think he was weighing his odds and doubting his chances.  “To weigh (weigh) your odds” means to think a bout whether you are going to be successful or not, to determine whether you will be able to do what you want to do.  This man is now seeing my six friend s, doubting that he can beat me.  He turns around and says something to his fr iend, and then they leave.

Finally I say, “That was a narrow escape.”  A “narrow escap e” is when you get away from a dangerous or difficult situation without be ing harmed, without injury. But you almost got injured, it was very close – it was a n arrow escape.  I say that I had never been so happy to see my friends as I was at th at moment.  “Needless to say, the first round was on me.”  The expression “need less to say” means it is so obvious I don’t have to say it.  A “round,” in this case , is alcoholic drinks that are purchased by someone; usually one person buys everyone in  the group a beer or a drink.  When everyone in your group orders a drink at approximately the same time, we would call that a “round of drinks.”  So you may have a first round, and then you may have a second round, and a thir d round, and a fourth round.  Well, you should probably stop after maybe the third round!

I say that the first round is on me.  When you say somethin g is “on you,” or “on me,” you mean that I, or you, am going to pay for it.   You say, “Oh, no.  That’s on me.  Dinner is on me.”  I’m going to pay for dinner;  I’m inviting you to dinner. There are actually some other ways of using the prepositio n “on,” especially this saying “on me” or “on you.”  Those can be found in our L earning Guide.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a norma l speed.

 [start of story]

I was sitting at my local bar waiting for my friends to a rrive to watch the game. Two guys sitting a few seats away kept giving me strange loo ks, and one of them said, “What are you looking at?”  I looked around to ma ke sure that he was speaking to me, and before I could respond he said, “Yo u want a piece of me? You and what army?  Let’s take it outside.”

By this time, I realized that this guy was trying to pick a fight with me and I wasn’t sure what to do.  I was hoping that I could make peace w ith him or at least hold him off until my friends got there.

I said to him, “I’m just sitting over here minding my ow n business.  I’m not trying to get in your face.  I don’t have a problem with you.   Let’s just chill out and I’ll buy you and your friend a drink.”  He didn’t seem to like  what I’d said.

“Chill out?” he said.  “I don’t need to chill out.  T hose are fighting words.  Let’s take this outside.  I want to see you running with your t ail between your legs.”  He got up and started to walk toward me.

Just then, my friends arrived.  When the man saw my six frie nds walking toward me, he stopped in his tracks.  I think he was weighing his odds and doubting his own chances.  He turned around and said something to his friend, and then they both got up and walked out the door.

That was a narrow escape.  I had never been so happy to see my friends as I was at that moment.  Needless to say, the first round wa s on me.

[end of story]

The script for this episode was written, needless to say, by Dr. Lucy Tse.





