# Doctor-Patient Confidentiality

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 662: Doctor-Patient Confidentiality.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 662.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there today to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English faster than anything – and, if you’re bald, help you grow hair.  It worked for me!  On this episode, we’re going to have a conversation between two doctors who are talking about “confidentiality,” keeping things private or secret between a doctor and his or her patient.  Let’s get started  [start of dialogue]  Dr. Green:  Can I consult you on a case of medical ethics?  Dr. Hause:  Sure, I’m not a lawyer, but I can give you my opinion as another doctor.  Dr. Green:  That’s what I’m looking for, your honest opinion.  I have a patient who has a medical condition that can be spread to her family, but she doesn’t want to tell them about it.  I don’t want to breach doctor-patient confidentiality, but I think that at least her husband should know.  Dr. Hause:  That’s a tricky one.  We both know that the only way we can get our patients to divulge any sensitive information is if they trust us.  We can’t easily put aside that confidentiality.    Dr. Green:  I know, but if she doesn’t tell her family, then they are in danger of developing serious medical problems themselves.  I took the Hippocratic Oath to do no harm.  How can I keep her secret and adhere to the spirit of that oath?  Dr. Hause:  I see what you mean.  If I were you, I’d sit my patient down and tell her what you think her responsibilities are to her family.  Maybe you can convince her to tell them. 