# Preparing a Video Resume

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 664: Preparing a Video Resume.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 664.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English even faster – and keep your hands from getting dirty!  This episode is about a “resume,” which is a description of your experiences that you give to someone you want to work for when you are looking for a job.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Katrina:  Okay, I’m ready to hear all of your advice about what to put into a video resume.  Raj:  All right.  The first thing to remember is that your video resume doesn’t take the place of your traditional resume; it supplements it.    Katrina:  Okay, I got it.  I was thinking of talking about some of my outside interests and activities to show that I’m a well-rounded person.  Raj:  I’d forget about that, if I were you.  The point of the video resume is to make a good business impression.  It’s not about showing your outside skills or interests.  You’re marketing yourself as a business professional so you should wear business attire, something you would wear to an interview.    Katrina:  Oh, so this outfit is out, I guess.  I wanted to show them my personality.  Raj:  I think that outfit would definitely knock you out of contention for any job.  You have to get it out of your head that you’re going to get hired for your personality or charm.  What counts are your qualifications, your skills, and how you handle yourself in a business setting.    Katrina:  Oh, I was afraid you were going to say that. 