# Shaving Your Face

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 6 45: Shaving Your Face.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 645.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educa tional Development, right here in Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Lear ning Guide for this episode that will help you improve your English – and m ake your day a little happier!

This episode is called “Shaving Your Face.”  It’s a story ab out me shaving; that is, removing hair from my face.  Let’s get started. > I forgot to set my alarm last night and I woke up later  than usual.  I was tempted to skip my morning shave, but I hate having long stubble a ll day.  I like to be clean-shaven every day.  I’m the kind of guy who gets a fiv e-o’clock shadow early in the afternoon, so if I skipped my morning shave, I’d look like I was growing a beard by the end of the day.
> I went into the bathroom and picked up my shaving cream.  I lathered up my face and checked to see that my razor was sharp and that I didn’ t need to replace the razor blades.  There’s nothing worse than trying to shave with a dull razor.  I tried using an electric razor for a while, but I could never get a close enough shave.
> I tried to focus on shaving my neck, chin, and cheeks.  I was in too much of a hurry, though, and nicked myself on the neck.  I hate it w hen that happens!  I knew I was in too much of a hurry, but I was going to b e really late.  Oh, I did it again!  This time I nicked myself on the chin.  “Okay,” I said to myself, “slow down.  You’d rather be a little late to work than to  end up with a face full of potholes, right?”

I begin the story by saying that I forgot to set my alarm last night.  “To set your alarm” is to change the settings on your alarm clock so that  it makes a loud noise at the time you want to get up.  Most of us have some so rt of alarm clock next to our beds that helps us wake up with a loud noise or per haps music.  The verb we

 use it is “to set” (set) your alarm.  Well, I forgot to  set my alarm, which means that the alarm clock did not ring – notice the verb “ring” w ith alarm clocks – and therefore I woke up later than usual.  In real life I rarely use an alarm clock; I’m almost always up early, around 5:30-6:00, but if it’s som ething very important then I might use my alarm clock if I’m traveling and need  to get up very early.

I say that I was tempted to skip my morning shave.  “To be  tempted” is to have a strong desire usually to do something bad, something tha t you know you should not do.  “The chocolate cookies tempted me,” I really wan ted to eat one even though I didn’t need the extra sugar and fat.  Well,  I was tempted “to skip,” meaning not to do something I normally do, my morning shave.  “Shave” is removing the hair usually from your face, or it could be  from some other part of your body.  Many women shave their legs, for example.  I shave my head in addition to my face – that is, the top of my head.  So,  “I was tempted to skip my morning shave, but I hate having long stubble all day.”   “Stubble” (stubble) are very short pieces of hair that grow usually on your face aft er you shave.  So you shave your face, and then the next day you’ll have very litt le pieces of hair; we call that hair stubble, especially if it is something tha t appears right after you shave.  “I hate having long stubble all day,” I said, “I  like (instead) to be clean- shaven.”  “Shaven” is “shave” with an “n” at the end; it ’s the past participle. “Clean-shaven” is an adjective meaning that my skin is smoo th; I don’t have any hair coming out of my body where I shaved.  So, clean-sha ven is that you completely removed the hair by shaving it.

I say that I’m the kind of guy (I’m the type of man) who  gets a five-o’clock shadow early in the afternoon.  A “five-o’clock shadow” means th at you get a dark color on your face by the end of the day because your hair is a lready growing back. “Five o’clock” would mean five o’clock in the afternoon, so  that by the time you are finished working you already look like you need to sh ave; some men grow their hair very quickly.  Truth is I’m not actually someone  who would get a five- o’clock shadow early in the afternoon, but that’s what the story says.  I continue saying, “if I skipped my morning shave, I’d look like I was growing a beard by the end of the day.”  A “beard” (beard) is something you g et by letting your hair on your face grow, not shaving it.  It especially refers to the hair on the cheeks and around the jaw, as well as on the upper neck.  The hai r immediately underneath your nose would be called a “mustache” (mustache).  So, we  sometimes refer to these together; some men have a beard and a mustache, som e people just have a mustache, and there are some men who just have a bea rd or a small beard that has become popular.  By the way, in British English  “mustache,” like a lot of words, is spelled slightly differently; there’s an “o” in the word – (mou) instead of just (mu).  In American English there’s no “o”.

 I say that I went into the bathroom and picked up my shavi ng cream.  “Shaving cream” is something that you put typically on your face or w herever you are shaving so that it’s easier to remove the hair; it makes the hair a little softer, it makes it easier for you to shave it.  Shaving cream is typical ly white.  “I lathered up my face and checked to see that my razor was sharp.”  “To lather (lather) up” is another one of those famous two-word phrasal verbs tha t we talk about so much.  It means to put a lot of soap or cream on your skin  and move it around – move your hand against the skin so that there is a foam th at comes up, a foam with little bubbles in it.  The air makes it foam up, we would say.  So, that’s to lather up; that’s what a man will do before he shaves h is face.  I also checked to see that my razor was sharp.  The “razor” (razor) is a sma ll tool that you hold in your hand that has a very sharp piece or pieces of metal a t one end, it’s like a little stick, and you use that to shave the hair off of you r face.  The little sharp pieces of metal that actually cut the hair off of your fa ce are called “razor blades” (blades).  A razor blade that is sharp will cut the hair  off easily.  A razor blade that is dull, that has been used many times, will not cut the hair off easily and might cause you to cut your skin – to actually cut your face so that i t’s bleeding, so that there is blood coming out.  That’s not normally what we  want to happen, so you always want to get a sharp razor blade to put on your ra zor.  “Razor” is the whole thing; “razor blade” is just the thin pieces of metal.  I have disposable razor blades, which means you use them a few times and then you throw them out. There are even disposable razors, where the razor blade i s part of the one-piece razor, and when you’re done with you throw the whole r azor out.  Normally, however, you have a razor and then you have razor blades t hat you put on and take off as they get dull.

“I tried using an electric razor for a while, but I coul d never get a close enough shave.”  An “electric razor,” you probably know, is an electr onic tool that you can use to shave.  Normally you don’t have to put shaving cream on.  Some men like it because it’s convenient; my father always used to shave wit h an electric razor. I actually did try for a while, but I really didn’t like  it.  I could not get a close enough shave; in other words, it always left little piece s of hair and I didn’t like that.  I wanted to be clean-shaven.

“I tried to focus on shaving my neck, my chin, and my cheeks.  I  was in too much of a hurry (I was going too fast), and nicked myself on t he neck.”  “To nick” (nick) here means to accidentally cut your skin with a razor blade causing it to bleed – causing blood to come out of it.  Men sometimes nick thems elves; they have little cuts in their neck or on their face when they shave.  You  have to be careful when you shave, of course.  The verb “nick” has a couple of dif ferent meanings in English; take a look at the Learning Guide for some mo re examples.  You can

 also find some additional meanings of the word “shave” i n the wonderful Learning Guide.

Well, I nicked myself on the neck.  “I hate it when that happens!” I say.  That’s a popular expression: “I hate it when that happens,” I ha te when that situation is present, when that thing happens.  Sometimes people say it kind of as a joke, but that’s literally what it means, you don’t like this situat ion.  I say that I knew I was in too much of a hurry, but I was going to be really late.  Well, this time I nicked myself on the “chin,” the end of your jaw line, the par t that is right underneath your mouth.  It’s sort of where the face and the neck co me together, right underneath your mouth and nose.  “Okay,” I said to mysel f, “slow down (go more slowly).  You’d rather be a little late to work than t o end up with (or to have the result of) a face full of potholes.”  A “pothole” (pot hole – one word) is a large hole in a road or a street that is caused by many cars going back and forth.  Here, I’m using it as a joke.  To say that I would have a face full  potholes means that I would have little cuts all over my face, just like holes i n a street.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a norma l speed. > I forgot to set my alarm last night and I woke up later  than usual.  I was tempted to skip my morning shave, but I hate having long stubble a ll day.  I like to be clean-shaven every day.  I’m the kind of guy who gets a fiv e-o’clock shadow early in the afternoon, so if I skipped my morning shave, I’d look like I was growing a beard by the end of the day.
> I went into the bathroom and picked up my shaving cream.  I lathered up my face and checked to see that my razor was sharp and that I didn’ t need to replace the razor blades.  There’s nothing worse than trying to shave with a dull razor.  I tried using an electric razor for a while, but I could never get a close enough shave.
> I tried to focus on shaving my neck, chin, and cheeks.  I was in too much of a hurry, though, and nicked myself on the neck.  I hate it w hen that happens!  I knew I was in too much of a hurry, but I was going to b e really late.  Oh, I did it again!  This time I nicked myself on the chin.  “Okay,” I said to myself, “slow down.  You’d rather be a little late to work than to  end up with a face full of potholes, right?”

 I’m never tempted to skip listening to these ESL Podcasts, because the script is written by our very own Dr. Lucy Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan.  Than k you for listening.  Come back and listen to us again on ESL Podcast.

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and produ ced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan, copyright 2010 by the Center  for Educational Development.

