# Listening to a Political Speech

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 689: Listening to  a Political Speech.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 689.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website, you know it, it’s eslpod.com.  You know also that you can become a Learning Guide member to help support this podcast and to help you improve your English even faster.  Go to our website for more information.  This episode is called “Listening to a Political Speech,” when a politician, someone in the government typically, gives an address – a speech to a group of people.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Kylie:  Can you understand a word he’s saying?    Ramis:  I doubt if anyone can.  He’s talking out of both sides of his mouth.  First he says he’s fighting for the little guy, and then he says he’s a champion for businesses.    Kylie:  I thought he’d be different, but he’s just like any other politician.  Ramis:  He looks sincere and he sounds sincere, but when you actually listen to what he says, it’s nothing but double-talk.    Kylie:  You’ve got that right.  I wouldn’t trust him any farther than I could throw him.  Now what is he saying?  Ramis:  He says that he can cut taxes and increase government services.  Now how do you suppose he could pull that off?    Kylie:  He can’t.  These are just campaign promises.  Once he gets into office, he’ll renege on every one of those promises.    Ramis:  Year after year it’s the same thing – broken promises and the same old same old.  Why do we put up with it? 