# Going to the Emergency Room

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 694: Going to the Emergency Room.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 694.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there to download a Learning Guide for this episode that will make you healthy, wealthy, and wi se.

This episode is called “Going to the Emergency Room .”  This is the place you go in a hospital if you suddenly become sick or are hu rt.  Let’s get started. > Saturday, 9:35 p.m.
> I arrive in the emergency room.  I had been at a pa rty earlier in the evening when I accidentally cut my finger.  My finger wasn’t sev ered, but it did have a very deep cut and I thought I might need stitches.  I check i n at the admissions desk and I’m told to take a seat and wait.
> Saturday, 10:40 p.m.
> I’m still waiting to see a doctor.  The waiting roo m is filled to capacity and I expect it to be a long night.
> Saturday, 11:15 p.m.
> Several ambulances pull up to the door and EMTs whe el in several people on stretchers.  I hear that there had been a pileup on  Freeway 215 and these were the victims.  I can see a doctor performing triage and the most critical cases are taken into exam rooms and maybe directly into surge ry.
> Sunday, 1:25 p.m.
> I decide to give up and go home.  If I hadn’t bled to death by that time, I could probably wait until Monday to see my regular physic ian.
> Our story begins on a Saturday night, about 9:35 in  the evening, 9:35 p.m.  I say, “I arrive in the emergency room.”  The “emergency r oom,” sometimes called by its initials “E.R.,” is the part of a hospital that  is always open to people who are very sick and who may die if they don’t get medical  treatment – medical help – soon.  You can go to any emergency room in an Ameri can hospital and if you have a serious sickness or illness or injury they w ill help you.  There was a famous American TV show called E.R.  back in the 1990s.

My story continues: I say that I had been at a part y earlier in the evening when I accidentally cut my finger.  So, I’m at a party wit h friends, and by mistake – by accident, not on purpose – I cut my finger.  Actual ly, I did once cut my finger.  I wasn’t at a party; I was cooking, and then I had to  go to the emergency room for help.  But in our story, I’m at a party, which soun ds a lot funner.  I say, “My finger wasn’t severed, but it did have a very deep cut and  I thought I might need stitches.”  “To sever” (sever), as a verb, means to  separate, usually by cutting. We often talk about that when it happens to one of the parts of your body: “His leg was severed in a car accident.”  “Severed,” the n, means separated or detached.  So, my finger was not severed, I still h ad my finger on my hand, but I did have a very deep cut and I thought I might need  stitches.  I thought it was possible that in order to make myself better I need ed to get stitches.  “Stitch” (stitch) is a piece of very thin material, “thread”  it’s called, that goes into your skin in order to close a very wide or deep cut.  “Stitch es” are sort of like when you have a rip in your piece of clothing; if you rip yo ur shirt you might take some thread and stitch up the rip so that it’s together,  the shirt doesn’t have a hole in it anymore.  Well, the same thing happens with your sk in – with your body, you can stitch it up with this special thread, and that’s w hat I mean here when I say “I might need stitches.”  “Stitch” has a couple of oth er meanings in English as well; take a look at our Learning Guide for those.

So, I say that I check in at the admissions desk an d I’m told to take a seat and wait.  The “admissions desk” is the place where you  first go in a hospital, or perhaps just an office, and you are asking for an a ppointment; you’re asking to see the doctor; you’re asking to be admitted.  “To be admitted” means to be let in, you can go into wherever you want to go.  Colle ges and universities have admissions offices that are in charge of, or respon sible for, deciding which students will get to study at that college.  An adm issions desk at a hospital is where you go when you get there to tell them your n ame, your telephone

number, your insurance information, and so forth.  Well I check in, I go to the admissions desk, and they tell me to wait, to “take  a seat,” that is, to sit down in a chair.

Saturday at 10:40 p.m.  I’m still waiting to see a doctor, more than an hour after I arrive.  This is not unusual in an emergency room; they take the most serious cases first.  If you cut your finger, as I did, wel l, you’re going to have to wait sometimes a couple of hours before you can see a do ctor, because you’re not going to die if you don’t see a doctor in the first  couple of hours.  So, that’s what is happening; I am sitting in the emergency room, it’s Saturday night, and the waiting room is filled to capacity.  The “waiting r oom” is a room – an area where you have a lot of chairs and are asked to wait in f or your appointment.  This is especially common for doctors; dentists, other medi cal professionals have waiting rooms.  These are places where you are goin g to wait for the doctor to finish playing golf and come back to the hospital.  “To be filled to capacity” means to be completely full, there isn’t room for anyone else, in this case, to sit.  On a Saturday night, emergency rooms are often filled to  capacity; the waiting room is full of people who have had accidents.  The weekend s are times when more people drink alcohol, and that usually leads to mor e problems medically speaking; people get into car accidents and that so rt of thing – shootings with guns, you know, the stuff you watch on TV.

Well, on Saturday at 11:15 p.m., now an hour and 45  minutes or more since I first arrived, I see several ambulances pull up to the do or.  An “ambulance” is a special car – a special vehicle that transports peo ple who have medical problems.  So, there are several ambulances that “p ull up,” or drive up to the door of the emergency room, and EMTs wheel in sever al people on stretchers. An “EMT” is an emergency medical technician, someon e who gives medical assistance when you are hurt.  They’re not doctors,  but they do help people who are injured get from their home or wherever they we re hurt to the hospital.  So they know some things in order to try to keep you a live if it’s a serious injury.  My brother-in-law is an EMT in Minnesota.  So, if you’ re ever in an ambulance in Minnesota, you should say, “Hey, do you know Jeff M cQuillan from ESL Podcast?” and if the person says yes, then that cou ld be my brother-in-law. Probably not, though.  A “stretcher” (stretcher) is  a long, portable bed, really, that we use to carry people in when they are sick or hur t.  In a hospital, the stretchers are usually on wheels, that’s why the story says the EMTs “wheel in” several people.  They bring several people in on these port able beds called “stretchers.”

I continue my story: “I hear that there had been a pileup on Freeway 215 and these were the victims.”  A “pileup” (pileup – one word) is a traffic accident involving many different cars; one car hitting anot her, and then another car hitting

that car, and so forth.  That’s called a “pileup.”  There had been a pileup on the 215 freeway, and these were the people who were hur t; these were the “victims.” “I can see a doctor performing triage and the most critical cases are taken into exam rooms and maybe directly into surgery.”  “Tria ge” (triage) is the process of determining which patients are the sickest, who nee ds help first.  “Critical cases” are very serious cases, usually ones that are what we would call “life- threatening,” meaning you could die if you don’t ge t proper help quickly.  “Critical” has other meanings in English as well; take a look at the Learning Guide for those.  An “exam room” is short for an examination room.  This is not where you take a test; it’s where the doctor looks at you to see what’s wrong with you.  The doctor “examines” you; he or she will look at you c losely.  “Surgery” is where they cut open some part of your body in order to fix som ething or to help you in some way.  So, the doctors are performing triage, and the most critical – the most serious cases are taken into exam rooms for the doc tors to look at them, and maybe directly into surgery, where the doctors will  – we use the verb “perform” – perform surgery on them.

Sunday, 1:25 p.m.  Remember, I arrived at 9:35 p.m.  on Saturday night; now, it’s already Sunday afternoon.  I say, “I decide to give  up and go home.”  “To give up” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to stop trying to do something, usually because it’s very difficult or impossible.  “Don’t give up,” we sometimes say to people, meaning don’t stop trying.  Well, I decide to give up and go home.  “If I hadn’t bled to death by that time, I could probably  wait until Monday to see my regular physician.”  “Bled” is the past tense of the verb “to bleed” (bleed).  It’s irregular, it’s not “bleeded” in the past tense, it ’s “bled” (bled).  “To bleed to death” would mean to die because you are losing so much “b lood,” that red liquid that comes out of your body when you cut it.  Well, I’m kind of making a joke here.  I say because I haven’t bled to death, I can probably  wait another day and go see my regular doctor – my regular “physician” on Monda y.  This is not uncommon for emergency rooms to be very crowded in some hosp itals in some cities in the U.S., especially public hospitals.

I conclude by saying that my evening in the emergen cy room wasn’t a total loss. A “total loss” would be something that has no usefu l purpose or useful result, something that didn’t give you anything.  “I learne d a valuable lesson: Never voluntarily go to the emergency room!”  “Voluntaril y” means no one is forcing you, you decide that you are going to go on your ow n.  That’s probably not very good advice, however.  If you’re really sick or hur t, you should definitely go to the emergency room.  It’s better than staying where you  are and getting no help whatsoever.  In my own case, I ended up staying at the hospital probably about three or four hours before I got to see a doctor wh o gave me some stitches in my thumb, and now I’m all better.

 Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a normal speed.

[start of story]

Saturday, 9:35 p.m.

I arrive in the emergency room.  I had been at a pa rty  earlier in the evening when I accidentally cut my finger.  My finger wasn’ t severed, but it did have a very deep cut and I thought I might need stitches.  I check in at the admissions desk and I’m told to take a seat and wait.

Saturday, 10:40 p.m.

I’m still waiting to see a doctor.  The waiting roo m is filled to capacity and I expect it to be a long night.

Saturday, 11:15 p.m.

Several ambulances pull up to the door and EMTs whe el in several people on stretchers.  I hear that there had been a pileup on  Freeway 215 and these were the victims.  I can see a doctor performing triage and the most critical cases are taken into exam rooms and maybe directly into surge ry.

Sunday, 1:25 p.m.

I decide to give up and go home.  If I hadn’t bled to death by that time, I could probably wait until Monday to see my regular physic ian.

My evening in the emergency room wasn’t a total los s, though.  I learned a valuable lesson: Never voluntarily go to the emerge ncy room!

[end of story]

Even when she has a difficult topic, our scriptwrit er never gives up.  That’s because it’s Dr. Lucy Tse, who is helping us each w eek.  Thank you, Lucy.





