# Shopping for a Television

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 687: Shopping for a Television.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 687.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Visit our website at eslpod.com.  Download the Learning Guide for this episode, an 8- to 10-page guide that will help you improve your English much, much faster than just listening.  This episode is all about buying a new television, with the vocabulary related, of course, to TVs.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Byung:  This is what I’m talking about!  It’s time to upgrade to a big-screen TV and this is the perfect place to buy one.  Nelly:  They certainly have a large selection.  These new TVs have pictures that are much sharper than our current one.  Byung:  There’s no comparison.  These new TVs have a much better resolution.  Just look at the brightness and the contrast!  Our old TV looks washed out by comparison.  Nelly:  And listen to that sound quality.  It’s like being in a movie theater with surround sound.  Byung:  Yeah, it’s time we moved into the 21st century.  Nelly:  According to what I’ve read, with a viewing distance of 10 feet, we should look for a screen size of about 40 inches.  Byung:  I was thinking more like a 60-inch screen.  Nelly:  A 60-inch TV?!  That would take up the entire living room wall.    Byung:  That’s exactly what I had in mind! 