# Dining with a Foodie

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 714: Dining with a Foodie.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 714.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com.  Go there today.  Why?  So that you can download a Learning Guide for this episode.  You can download a Learning Guide by becoming a member of ESL Podcast and supporting thi s effort.

This episode is called “Dining with a Foodie.”  A “ foodie” is someone who likes to go to good restaurants, whose hobby, in a way, is g oing to restaurants and finding good places to eat.  Let’s get started.

[start of dialogue]

I invited my friend Nick to try a new restaurant wi th me.  This restaurant was the latest thing, and since Nick was a foodie, I though t he would have an interesting take on the meal. …

Anita:  So, what did you think of the first course?

Nick:  I thought it was passable.

Anita:  Just passable?

Nick:  Yes, it was a run-of-the-mill dish you could  find in any fine dining restaurant.  No gourmet would be bowled over by it.

Anita:  Oh, I thought it was pretty good.  What abo ut the main course?

Nick:  I thought the fish wasn’t seasoned properly and it was a touch overcooked.

Anita:  I’m sorry to hear that.

Nick:  And the wine pairing was all wrong.

Anita:  I’m not a wine aficionado, so I guess my pa late isn’t as sophisticated as yours.  I thought the wine was wonderful.

Nick:  Hmm, in my opinion, the entire meal was forg ettable. …

That was the last time I invited Nick to join me for a meal.  I thought the meal was delicious, but Nick’s comments left a bad taste in my mouth!

[end of dialogue]

Our story begins with Anita saying that she invited  her friend Nick – Nick is a short form, usually, of Nicholas – to try a new res taurant with her.  “This restaurant,” she says, “was the latest thing.”  “Th e latest thing” is something that everyone is now doing or someplace everyone is now going; it’s considered new, exciting, interesting.  For example we might say no w, in the year 2011, the iPad is the latest thing, or some new computer is the la test thing, or new phone.  “The latest thing” is what is very popular right now, th at everybody wants to get or to try.  The restaurant that Anita wants to go to is a lso the latest thing in her town – in her city, “and since,” she says, “Nick was a foo die,” she thought that Nick would have an interesting take on the meal.  A “foo die” (foodie) is someone who’s very interested in good restaurants, good foo d, someone whose hobby it is, in a way, to find good restaurants and good foo d in a certain city.  Nick would have an interesting take on the meal, Anita thought .  “To have a take on (something)” means to have an opinion, a perspectiv e, an idea about something. Someone might say to you, “What’s your take on the situation in the Middle East?”  What’s your opinion?  What are your ideas a bout it?  “To have an interesting take” would be to have an opinion that other people thought was interesting.  So, Anita thought that Nick, being a foodie, would have an interesting take on the meal – on the food they wer e going to eat at this new restaurant.

Anita says, “So, what do you think of the first cou rse?”  Meals, especially formal meals, come in “courses.”  The first course is what  you eat first; the second course is what you eat second.  Usually, though not  always, they’re brought out from the kitchen one by one: first course, second c ourse, third course, and so forth.  So, Anita asks Nick what he thinks of the f irst course.  Nick says, “I thought it was passable.”  “Passable” means acceptable, oka y, but not excellent, not great.  Anita says, “Just passable?”  Only passable , you didn’t think it was more than just okay?

Nick says, “Yes, it was a run-of-the-mill dish.”  T he expression “run-of-the-mill” (mill) means ordinary, not special, very standard, very typical, maybe a little dull, not very exciting.  Nick says the dish – the first course, the food they ate first – was run-of-the-mill.  “You could find (that kind of  dish) in any fine dining restaurant.”  The term “fine (fine) dining (dining) ” means the experience of eating at a very nice restaurant, often an expensive resta urant, one that is better than what you usually eat at.  “To dine” (dine) is anoth er word for “to eat,” it’s used in somewhat perhaps more formal situations.  So, Nick thinks that this course – this first course could be found at any good restaurant,  any fine dining restaurant. “No gourmet would be bowled over by it,” he says.  A “gourmet” (gourmet) – it comes from French so the last “t” is not pronounced  – is a person who’s very knowledgeable about good food.  It’s kind of like a  “foodie,” but “foodie” is a more modern term – more recent term.  “Gourmet” is a mor e traditional term, and there’s also the idea the person is perhaps better educated in food, knows more about food, and so forth.  We talk about a “gourmet  chef” – a “chef” is a person who cooks food in a restaurant or other location.  So, a “gourmet chef” is a chef that knows a lot about fine dining – about good foo d.  Nick says that a gourmet would not be bowled over by that meal – by that dis h.  The phrase “to be bowled over” means to be very impressed, to be amazed, to be surprised by something. It could be a good surprise; it could be a bad surp rise.  “Bowling” (bowling), as you know, is a game where you take a ball and you t hrow it so that it knocks down what are called “pins” (pins), there’re usuall y 10 of them.  The verb “to bowl” would be to throw the ball – the “bowling bal l” we call it.  “To be bowled over,” however, means to be amazed.  It’s as though  you are so surprised or so shocked that a bowling ball has hit you and you’ve fallen down – something like that.

Anita says, “Oh, I thought it was pretty good (I th ought it was very good).  What about the main course?”  Again, in a formal meal yo u may have a first course, which might be a salad or a soup in an American res taurant; the main course would typically be the meat or the fish, or if it’s  a vegetarian restaurant the tofurkey or the vegetarian hamburger – which is not  a hamburger!  But anyway, we’re talking now about the dialogue, and the main course is what Anita is asking about.  In this case, the main course was fish.  Ni ck says, “I thought the fish wasn’t seasoned properly.”  “To season” (season) is  to put certain spices, salt, pepper onto food.  Nick thinks the fish was not sea soned properly; it didn’t have the right mixture of salt, pepper, other spices.  H e says it was also “a touch overcooked.”  “To be overcooked” means to cook some thing too much; with fish and meat it usually makes the meal hard – it makes the fish or the meat too hard. “A touch” is another way of saying a little bit, ju st a little bit, a small amount. “Touch” has other meanings in English as well; take  a look at our Learning Guide for some additional explanations.

 Now, Anita doesn’t agree with Nick.  She says, “I’m  sorry to hear that.”  She’s sorry that Nick doesn’t like his food.  Nick then c omplains a little bit more, because Nick is kind of a jerk!  I mean, you know, Anita invites him to this dinner, and then he sits there and complains the whole time : “Oh, the fish is overcooked.”  Too bad Nick!  But to be fair, Anita did ask Nick to the meal to get his opinion.  Nick continues to offer his opinion; he says, “the wine pairing was all wrong.”  “Pairing” (pairing) is two things that go together; at a meal it would be two things that are paired together, or something t hat is served at the same time. In this case, Nick is complaining about the “wine p airing,” the kind of wine that they chose to go with this particular meal.

Anita says, “I’m not a wine aficionado.”  “Aficiona do” (aficionado) is someone who is very passionate about something; that is, so meone who enjoys something, who has a lot of knowledge about somethi ng.  Anita says she’s not a wine aficionado; she doesn’t know a lot about wine,  “so I guess my palate isn’t as sophisticated as yours.”  Your “palate” is the part  of your mouth that can detect or that can sense taste.  It’s used in a more general way to describe the kinds of tastes that you like and don’t like.  So, Anita say s that her palate – her ability, her knowledge of food – isn’t as sophisticated as Nick’ s.  “To be sophisticated” means to be, in this case, more educated, with more  experience.  The word can also be used to mean something that is elegant, fan cy, rich, something that is cultured; all of these are possible uses of “sophis ticated.”

Anita says, “I thought the wine was wonderful.”  I thought it was good; it was excellent.  Nick says, “Hmm, in my opinion, the mea l was entirely forgettable.” “To forget” means not to remember, so something tha t is described as “forgettable” is something that is not memorable, u sually because it’s not very good.  Anita says this “was the last time I invited  Nick to join me for a meal.  I thought the meal was delicious (it tasted excellent ), but Nick’s comments (Nick’s opinions) left a bad taste in my mouth!”  The expre ssion “to leave a bad taste in your mouth” can refer to food you that are eating, and then later you can still taste the food but it isn’t a good taste.  The expr ession can also be used more generally, as it is here, to mean to leave a bad im pression, to make someone feel unpleasant or uncomfortable later on.  “I had an ar gument with my boss, and his comments left a bad taste in my mouth.”  I’m still thinking about them; they bother me; they still bother me even though the argument i s over.  That’s what Anita is saying here about Nick’s comments.  So be careful i f you are going to invite a foodie to dinner!

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a normal speed.
