# Taking Care of Pets

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 789: Taking Care of Pets.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 789.  I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  Our website is eslpod.com.  You probably know that.  You probably also know you can download a Learning Guide for this episode that contains all of the vocabulary, definitions, sample sentences, additional definitions, culture notes, comprehension questions – but wait, there’s more, a complete transcript of everything we say on this episode.  This episode is about taking care of pets.  “Pets” are things like dogs and cats, animals that people have in their house – for some weird reason.  Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]   Magda:  Oooh, he’s so cute.  When did you get him?  Tony:  Yesterday.  I’m training him to do tricks.  Magda:  Really?  Are you having any luck?  Tony:  No, not yet.  So far, he just lies there, but maybe he’s hungry and doesn’t have any energy to play.  I’m going to feed him a few treats and give him some water in his bowl.  Magda:  Uh, okay.  Tony:  And then later, I’m going to take him for a walk.  Here are the new collar and leash I bought for him.  I’ll be sure to bring his carrier in case he gets too tired to walk.  Magda:  Whatever you say.  Are you sure you need to do all that?  Tony:  Oh, sure.  It’s important to keep pets healthy and happy, don’t you think?  I’m going to groom him later.  I wouldn’t want him to get fleas or ticks.  Maybe I should take him to see the vet for a checkup. 