# Purchasing and Using an E-Ticket

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 899 – Purchasing and Using an E-Ticket.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 899. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is ESLPod.com. Become a member of ESL P odcast by going to our website.

This episode is a story about using an electronic t icket to travel. Let’s get started. > I thought I would save time by purchasing my airlin e ticket online and checking in at the airport with my e-ticket.  I went onto the M cQ Air website and selected my flights.  The screen then prompted me to pay with a  credit card.  After I typed in my payment information, I got a confirmation receip t with my ticket number and my itinerary.  I printed out a copy of my e-ticket and I was ready to go – easy!
> But when I got to the airport, it was a different s tory.  I went up to a self-serve kiosk and swiped my credit card to bring up my acco unt.  The computer said that it couldn’t find my account.  I flagged down an emp loyee and she didn’t have any better luck, suggesting I stand in line at the chec k-in counter.
> I got in the long line and 45 minutes later, the em ployee helped me check in and gave me my boarding pass.  When I asked her what the problem was, she said she didn’t know and it was probably just a glitch in their computer system.
> Well, the best laid plans of mice and men often go awry, especially if technology is involved!

Our story begins by me saying, “I thought I would s ave time by purchasing my airline ticket online.” “To save time” means to do something more quickly so that it won't take as much time. I decided I would save time by purchasing – buying – my airline ticket online – on the Internet – and ch ecking in at the airport with my e-ticket. “To check in” is a two-word phrasal verb,  meaning usually to present yourself at an event or at a location to register f or something. When we use it in

terms of airline travel, we mean to go to the airpo rt and to tell the airline, “Yes, I'm here. I want to get on the airplane.” You have to c heck in before you're allowed to go onto an airplane.

I said I was going to check in at the airport with my e-ticket. “E-ticket” stands for electronic ticket. It's a ticket that most airlines  in the United States now use. It's not a paper ticket that they send you like they use d to many years ago. I still remember those days. Instead, they just send you an  e-mail or they take you to a website. Now, you can print out your e-mail but tha t's not exactly the same as a paper ticket. An e-ticket is something that's done electronically and most tickets nowadays are e-tickets. I say that, “I went on to the McQ Air website.” “To go on to a website” means to visit a website, to go to th at URL, that address on your web browser on your computer or your phone. I went onto the McQ Air website and selected, or picked, chose, my flights.

A “screen” is anything on an electronic device that  is used to display something, to look at something. A “screen” could also be some thing that's on a wall that you show a movie on. In talking about computers though,  the screen is a thing you're looking at. It could be a separate monitor from you r main part of your computer, or it could be, for example, on a smart phone such as an iPhone. It could be the part of the phone that you look at that, that the i nformation is displayed on. In our story, “screen” really means the same as the page that was on the screen.

“The screen prompted me to pay with a credit card.”  “To prompt (prompt) someone” means to tell them they should do a certai n action, to give them an indication that they should do something, to reques t that they do something. So, the website is prompting me – is asking me, if you will – to pay with a credit card. After I typed in my payment information -- my name,  my credit card number, and so forth – I got a confirmation receipt with my tic ket number and my itinerary.

A “confirmation receipt” is an electronic, in this case, document that shows that you have paid for something. You can print it out a nd show someone and say, “Look, I paid for this. I have a confirmation recei pt.” A “receipt” in general, is any piece of paper or e-mail that indicates that you ha ve purchased something. “Confirmation” is used here because we’re talking a bout making an airline reservation and when you make a reservation, when y ou say, “Yes, I want to fly on this day at this time,” the airline says back to  you, “Yes. Okay. You can do that.” They give you a confirmation of your reserva tion.

I say that, “I got a confirmation receipt with my t icket number and my itinerary.” Your “ticket number” is a number that is on your ti cket that is used to identify that ticket and that ticket only. Every ticket has its o wn ticket number. “Itinerary”

(itinerary) means your travel plans. An “itinerary”  is a list of all the important, in this case, airline flights that you are going to ta ke. Your complete itinerary might include the airline flights you're going to take, the hotels you’re going to stay at, the tours that you may take – all that could be par t of your itinerary.

Sometimes people use the word “itinerary” to mean their travel schedule, everything they will be doing when they are traveli ng. Next, I say, “I printed out a copy of my e-ticket and I was ready to go.” “To pri nt out” means to make a paper copy of your electronic ticket. This, of course, is  kind of funny because the idea is that you would be saving paper, not using paper, by  having an electronic ticket, but the truth is most of us know that computers don 't always work the way they should. And so we print out a copy so we have proof  that we did what we said we did, in this case, that we purchased a ticket.

I say that, “When I got to the airport, it was a di fferent story,” meaning things did not go the way I planned them to go. I say, “I went  up to a self service kiosk and swiped my credit card to bring up my account.” Lots  of vocabulary in that sentence, let's take a look. “I went up to” means I  walked up to. I walked in the direction of and then stopped in front of something . You could go up to a person, or you could go up to, in this case, an object. The  object that the person is going up to, is walking up to, is a self-serve kiosk. “Se lf-serve” means there isn't anyone there to help you. You are doing everything yourself. You are serving or helping yourself.

A “kiosk” (kiosk), in American English, usually ref ers to a computer where people can go and get information, or buy things, without anyone helping them. In other countries, in other languages, “kiosk” means a litt le, something a little different, but when we talk about a “self-serve kiosk,” we’re talking about a computer or a machine that you can go and do things on. This kios k asked me to swipe my credit card.

“To swipe” (swipe) means to move something very qui ckly, especially a credit card or any other sort of bankcard through a machin e that reads the electronic information on the card. When you go to a store, there'll often be a little machine and you use that machine to put your credit card in formation into the electronic system of the store. You do that by moving the cred it card very quickly through the machine. The verb we use specifically for that action is “swipe.”

So, I swiped my credit card to bring up my account.  “To bring up” is a two-word phrasal verb that has a couple of different meaning s. Here, it means to retrieve or get information from a computer and have it be disp layed on the computer screen. “To bring up” can also mean to raise a chil d, to be a parent and/or a

friend who helps a child grow up, but here it means  simply to get information from the computer so you can see it. The computer, howev er, said that it couldn't find my account. “My account” here would be my informati on. “I then flagged down an employee.” “To flag (flag) down” is a two-word phra sal verb meaning, usually, to wave your hand in the air in order to get someone's  attention, to get them to come over and help you. We can flag down an employe e at an airport and ask them to help us.

That's what I'm doing in the story. You could also flag down someone else who you want to help you in some public space. You may flag down a police officer if you have a problem and you need his help or her hel p. I flagged down an employee but she didn't have any better luck, meani ng she wasn't able to find the information either. “So, she suggested that I stand  in line at the check-in counter.” “To stand in line” means to go and to wai t for someone to help you. The “check-in counter” is the place, usually a very lar ge desk at an airport where employees will help you check in. It's different th an the self-service kiosk where you're supposed to check-in yourself. The check-in counter is the place where they have real live human beings that will help you .

“I got in the long line and 45 minutes later, the e mployee helped me check in and gave me my boarding pass.” A “boarding pass” is a –  usually a small piece of paper that you're given that you have to give to the airline employee in order to get on the actual plane. So, you hold it. You keep it with you. It also proves that you are going to go on an airplane and is your only  way, typically, to get past the airport security. Now, in most American airports, y ou can't go up into where the people are getting on airplanes unless you have a b oarding pass, unless you are actually traveling. In the old days, you could just  go up to any airport and go through the security and sit and wait for someone to leave or for someone to arrive. Nowadays, you can't do that. You have to ha ve a boarding pass to get past security. I asked the person what the problem was – why the computer couldn't find my information and I was told it was just a glitch in their computer system.

A “glitch” (glitch) is a technical problem, usually  a small problem related to the way the computer is working. It's not working corre ctly. It's an error. I end by saying that, “The best laid plans of mice and men o ften go awry.” This is an old expression that means even when we plan things very  carefully, sometimes things happen and our plan does not work out. Our p lan is not successful. “The best laid plans” would be the plans that are prepar ed the best. Even if we prepare good plans, they often go awry. “To go awry ” (awry) means to go wrong. There is a famous book in English called Of Mice an d Men.  You can learn about that in our Learning Guide.

 Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.  > I thought I would save time by purchasing my airlin e ticket online and checking in at the airport with my e-ticket.  I went onto the M cQ Air website and selected my flights.  The screen then prompted me to pay with a  credit card.  After I typed in my payment information, I got a confirmation receip t with my ticket number and my itinerary.  I printed out a copy of my e-ticket and I was ready to go – easy!
> But when I got to the airport, it was a different s tory.  I went up to a self-serve kiosk and swiped my credit card to bring up my acco unt.  The computer said that it couldn’t find my account.  I flagged down an emp loyee and she didn’t have any better luck, suggesting I stand in line at the chec k-in counter.
> I got in the long line and 45 minutes later, the em ployee helped me check in and gave me my boarding pass.  When I asked her what the problem was, she said she didn’t know and it was probably just a glitch in their computer system.
> Well, the best laid plans of mice and men often go awry, especially if technology is involved!

You can go on to our website and print out the wond erful scripts by our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse.

From Los Angeles, California, I'm Jeff McQuillan. Thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again, right here on ESL Podc ast.

