# Understanding Modern Art

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 894: Understanding Modern Art.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 894. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful, and I do mean beautiful, Los Angeles, Ca lifornia.

We have a website. Yes, we do. We have a website. H ow about you? Well, our website is ESLPod.com and if you go there, you can become a member of ESL Podcast and download the Learning Guide for this ep isode.

This episode is about understanding modern art, som ething many of us have a difficult time doing. We’ll listen to a dialogue be tween Stephan and Livia. Let's get started.

 > Stephan: What’s that?
> Livia: It’s my latest artwork. It’s experimental.
> Stephan: It’s, um...
> Livia: Abstract. It’s part of a performance art pie ce I’m putting together. It’ll really challenge people’s perceptions of reality.
> Stephan: I don’t really understand contemporary art . Is it supposed to represent something?
> Livia: It’s my interpretation of how the rich oppre ss the poor.
> Stephan: Really?
> Livia: Yes, from a postmodern perspective.
> Stephan: Oh, I see.
> Livia: You do?
> Stephan begins our dialogue by asking Livia, “What' s that?” What is that? Livia says, “It's my latest artwork. It's experimental.” “Artwork” (artwork) – one word - is anything that an artist creates that expresses his or her ideas. It could be a painting. It could be a sculpture. It could be draw ing. It could be film. Any of these objects, any of these things, could be called artwo rk. Livia says that her artwork is experimental. “Experimental” usually means somet hing that is new, something that hasn't been done before, something that perhap s you're not quite sure will work.

Stephan says, “It's um...” He uses “um” to think of  something to say. Of course, he wants to say something nice but he's a little pe rhaps confused. Livia says “abstract.” She’s describing what the artwork is. S tephan couldn't come up with the name perhaps. So, Livia helps him by saying it' s abstract art. “Abstract” means, as imaginative – when we’re talking about ar t – objects that don't look like real objects. They’re are not clearly seen. Yo u have to use perhaps your imagination to understand what the symbols or shape s or colors are saying to you in the art.

Livia says, “It's part of a performance art piece I 'm putting together.” “Performance art” is really a kind of drama, kind o f acting, a kind of series of actions that make up the art piece. Performance art  typically happens in a given place and time, and if you're not there, then you c an't experience the art. It's not like art on the wall at a museum. I actually took a  class in performance art, oh, many years ago, back in the early 90’s. Performance  art was very popular in Los Angeles. There were a lot of well-known artists who  came to Los Angeles to do performance art and there are still places where yo u can go and see performance art here in L.A. In fact, in Santa Moni ca, there is a place especially for performance art.

 Well, Livia is talking about her performance art pi ece. “Piece,” here just means artwork. Livia says, it will really challenge peopl e’s “perception of reality.” Your “perception of something” is how you view it, how y ou see it, how you interpret it. “Reality” is that which is real, that which is true  – real life – how the world really is. Stephan says, “I don't really understand contem porary art.” “Contemporary” here means the same as modern – art that has been p roduced recently. You can use contemporary also as a noun, when describing a person who is the same age or lived at the same time – is really what we'r e talking about – as another person. So, we could say that F. Scott Fitzgerald a nd T.S. Eliot were contemporaries. They lived at the same time. I'm no t sure if they knew each other. I don't think so.

Anyway, Stephan is talking about contemporary art, which is modern art, art of our generation. Stephan says, “Is it supposed to re present something?” “To represent,” in art, means to symbolize, to have a m eaning beyond the normal appearance of whatever the thing is. For example, y ou might have a rose in your picture, in your painting, that represents love or represents goodness or passion or whatever it is you're trying to communicate with  the people looking at your art.

Livia says the artwork she made is “my interpretati on of how the rich oppress the poor.” “Interpretation” is how you, as an individua l, understand something, how you think it works, how you try to express it to an other person. In art, your interpretation is the way you see this particular p iece of art being expressed. Artists and actors will also talk about interpretat ion. “To interpret a role” means to act a certain part in a play or movie or drama, and  the idea here is that it is your idea of what that performance should be, your inter pretation of it. This artwork is Livia's interpretation of how the rich oppress the poor. “To oppress” (oppress) means to treat someone unfairly, to treat someone c ruelly. It's not an art term. It's a term really more common in politics or sociology.  Livia is interested, however, in expressing how the rich, people with a lot of mo ney, oppress the poor, treat the poor badly.

Stephan says, “Really?” which here means, “Is that true?” “Is that really true?” Livia says, “Yes, from a postmodern perspective.” “ Postmodern” is a term you will see in many places, in philosophy and science and i n art. It relates to things in art that were developed in a style that came after mode rnism. “Post” (post) as a prefix, means after. Postmodern art tends to have a  very, how we might say, “skeptical interpretation” of the world, a question ing interpretation of the world.

Stephan says, “Oh, I see.” Livia says, “You do?” St ephan says, “No. Not really,” meaning I don't really see. I don't really understa nd. “I don't think I'm cut out for

modern art,” Stephan says. “To be cut out for somet hing” is a phrasal expression meaning to be prepared for something, to be ready t o have or ready to do something. I don't think I'm cut out for playing the piano. I tried but I wasn't very good. I really did. I tried once about five, six ye ars, ago – didn't do very well. I'm not cut out for playing the piano.

Stephan says, “I prefer art to be representational. ” Something that is “representational” is something that shows things t he way they really are. When you look at a painting, you can say, “Oh, yes. That 's a car. That's a flower. That's a mountain.” That is representational art. Stephan says, “I just can't wrap my head around this.” “To wrap (wrap) your head around  something” means to be able to understand something, something that perhap s is very difficult or complex – “to wrap your head around something.”

Stephan says he cannot wrap his head around Livia’s  art. Livia says, “That's the point,” meaning that's exactly what I'm trying to d o. “It's supposed to challenge you and make you think.” Stephen says, “Well, it ce rtainly made me think.” Livia says, “It has?” meaning it has made you think? Step han says, “Yeah. It's made me realize that I've underrated paint-by-numbers al l these years.” “To underrate” (underrate) means not to appreciate something the w ay you should, to consider something less important or less valuable than what  it really is. Stephan says he underrated paint-by-numbers. “Paint-by-numbers” was  a type of painting. Well, it was a type of activity that was popular in oh, the 1970’s, when I was growing up. Usually, it's something that children now do, not a dults. Basically, you have a picture, a drawing, and you have little numbers, an d the numbers tell you what colors should go in that little space. Children oft en color in things that are numbered and have colors for them, at least they us ed to. I don't know. Maybe they don't anymore. Even among adults, paint-by-num bers was a popular activity, at least in the United States, during a c ertain period of time, as I say back in the 1970’s. At least, that's what I remembe r.

Well, Stephan thinks that paint-by-numbers, which i s not considered real art – it's not considered art that you would put in a museum –  Stephan is saying that that kind of art, that paint-by-numbers art, maybe was b etter than he thought it was. Of course, what he's doing here is he's insulting L ivia. He’s saying that, that pain- by-numbers art is better than your professional art .

Now let’s listen to the dialogue this time, at a no rmal speed.

[start of story]

Stephan: What’s that?

 Livia: It’s my latest artwork. It’s experimental.

Stephan: It’s, um...

Livia: Abstract. It’s part of a performance art pie ce I’m putting together. It’ll really challenge people’s perceptions of reality.

Stephan: I don’t really understand contemporary art . Is it supposed to represent something?

Livia: It’s my interpretation of how the rich oppre ss the poor.

Stephan: Really?

Livia: Yes, from a postmodern perspective.

Stephan: Oh, I see.

Livia: You do?

Stephan: No, not really. I don’t think I’m cut out for modern art. I prefer art to be representational. I just can’t wrap my head around this.

Livia: That’s the point. It’s supposed to challenge  you and make you think.

Stephan: Well, it’s certainly made me think.

Livia: It has?

Stephan: Yeah, it’s made me realize that I’ve under rated paint-by-numbers all these years.

[end of story]

She's definitely cut out for scriptwriting. I speak  of our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse. From Los Angeles, California, I'm Jeff Mc Quillan. Thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right h ere on ESL Podcast.

