# Finding a House to Buy

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 851: Finding a House to Buy. 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 851. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, right here in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Our website is eslpod.com. Go there and download a Learning Guide for this episode. You can also take a look at some of our sp ecial courses in business and daily English that we have available right ther e on the website.  

This episode is a story about someone who’s trying to find a house to buy. Let’s get started. > I’m looking to buy a house and I want a single-fami ly home. I have been living in a townhouse for two years, and I am tired of having  common walls and very small yards. My new house will have to have a lot m ore square footage, a large lot size, an open floor plan, great curb appeal, an d lots of upgrades.  
> My agent has been showing me fixer-uppers, while I want a home that’s in move- in condition. The problem is, I can’t afford a high  mortgage. I’m not holding out for a mansion, but I want this new house to be a step u p from my townhouse. 
> My real estate agent tells me that I have to adjust  my expectations. I asked him, “Do you mean I can’t have the house I want?” And he  said, “Of course you can. All you have to do is move – to Alaska!”

Our story begins when I say that “I’m looking to bu y a house and I want a single- family home.” When someone says they are trying to buy a house, it isn’t always necessarily a physical house versus a condominium o r a townhouse. We’ll talk about what they are in a minute. A “single-family h ome” is a home designed for just one family to live in, in a single building. I t’s the traditional house. When someone says “I have a house,” we think of a buildi ng being on its own. The only people in that little building, that house, are the  people who live there.  

This is different from a condominium. A “condominiu m” is when you have, basically, what are apartments that people buy and own. You could also have a “townhouse.” A “townhouse” – one word – is a tall, narrow home, usually with two or three levels, two or three floors, but it’s buil t right next to another townhouse. So, it’s not like a single family home where the bu ilding is separate from anything around it. In a townhouse, usually, they’re all in one building so that even though you have your own space, your own area, there’s som eone right next to you who has, typically, what are called “common walls.” “Co mmon walls” are when two different apartments, or two different townhouses o r two different condominiums have one person on one side of the wall and the oth er person on the other side of the wall, that’s a common wall. 

Well, I say in my story that “I have been living in  a townhouse for two years and I’m tired of having common walls.” “I’m tired of th is” means I don’t want to live this way anymore. I don’t like this situation. I’m tired  of having common walls, walls that I share with other people. Of course, when you  have a townhouse or a condominium or an apartment building, it’s usually a little noisier because you can hear the people next to you more easily because  you have a common wall.  

I also say that I don’t like the very small yards t hat come with the townhouse. A “yard” (yard) is an outside area next to a home. Ma ny homes have a yard in front of the house, the front yard, and then they have a yard in the back of the house, the backyard. Typical American homes have grass som ewhere on the yard or in the yard. My house has grass in the front yard and grass in the backyard. That’s my real house, not the house in the story here, nec essarily.  

Let’s go back to the story. I say that “My new hous e will have to have a lot more square footage.” “Square footage” (footage) is the number of square feet in an area. It’s how we measure the size of houses or the  size of apartment buildings or apartments within the building, more likely. The  same is true for townhouses and condominiums. You might buy a house that has a thousand square feet. That means that there are 1,000 square feet inside of the house. Most American homes used to be built with, say, 1500 – 1700 squar e feet. That would be a typical three-bedroom, two-bath home (that is a hom e with three bedrooms and two bathrooms). Nowadays, in the last, oh, I don’t know, 25, 30 years, houses are being built to be much bigger, so that you have  2,000 or 2500 or 3,000 square feet. 

In the story, I say “I want a lot more square foota ge,” meaning a bigger house, “a large lot size, an open floor plan, great curb appe al, and lots of upgrades.” “A lot” (lot) is the land that the house sits on. “Lot size ” would be the size of that piece of land. Typically, here, in my neighborhood in Los An geles, lot sizes are between  

,000 and 7,000 square feet, and then on those lots , on those pieces of land are houses that have between a thousand and 3,000 squar e feet inside of the house.  

An “open floor plan” is a design of a home. It coul d be an office also that has a lot of open space. There aren’t that many walls. The fl oor plan is technically like a drawing of where things are in your house, almost l ike a map. When we use the expression “open floor plan,” we’re referring to a place that doesn’t have a lot of walls, where there’s a lot of light passing through  one room to the next.  

I also want, in the story, a house with “great curb  appeal.” “Curb appeal” (curb appeal) – two words – refers to how attractive, how  good-looking the house looks when you’re driving by it or when you’re walking do wn the street. A “curb” is where the street meets your property. Usually, the street is a little bit lower, maybe a half a foot lower than the land where the h ouses are. “Appeal” refers to how attractive something is. We have, also, the adj ective “appealing.” “Curb appeal” refers to the attractiveness of your house.  Does it look good from the outside?  

“Upgrades” (upgrades) refer to when a house has new  things done to it. When an old house has a new bathroom or a new kitchen, thos e would be upgrades. “Upgrades” could also refer to some things you woul dn’t normally expect in an average house, a typical house. Maybe there’s a ver y big tub. A big tub might be considered an upgrade. It’s nicer. It’s more expens ive and so forth. 

I say in the story that “My agent,” meaning the per son who’s helping me buy the house – my real estate agent – “has been showing me  fixer-uppers.” A “fixer- upper” (fixer-upper) is a house that needs work. It ’s a house that has problems that you’re going to have to come in and fix. I say  that “My agent has been showing me fixer-uppers while I want a home that’s in move-in condition.” “Move- in condition” is when you can come in and you can j ust live in the house. You don’t have to fix anything. Everything is working. That’s move-in condition. Usually, having to paint the walls is not considere d something that would make a house a fixer-upper. Wall painting or changing the carpet – those things are to be expected, and you could still call a house in move- in condition even though you had to paint the walls.  

In the story, I say that “My problem is I can’t aff ord a high mortgage.” A “mortgage” (mortgage) – the “t” is silent – is a lo an that you use to buy a house. I say, “I’m not holding out for a mansion, but I want  this new house to be a step up from my townhouse.” “To hold out for something” mea ns to wait for something that you really want. “I’m not holding out,” “I’m n ot waiting to get a mansion,” I  

say. A “mansion” (mansion) is a huge house, a very large, expensive house. People in Beverly Hills, rich people, live in mansi ons.  

“I want this house to be a step up from my townhous e,” I say. A “step-up from” simply means an improvement over, something that is  better than what you used to have. If you own a Honda Civic, which is a very nice car – I used to own one – and then you buy a Porsche or a Lexus, those would be a step up from your Honda Civic – more expensive cars.  

I end the story by saying that “My real estate agen t tells me that I have to adjust,” or change, “my expectations.” “Expectations” are th e things you believe will happen, that you want to happen about a situation, what you anticipate to happen. Here, it really just means how good of a ho use I can get for the money that I have.  

I asked him, “Do you mean I can’t have the house I want?” And he said, “Of course you can. All you have to do is move - to Ala ska!” My real estate agent is saying that with the money that I have, if I want t he kind of house that I want – a big house – I’m going to have to go to somewhere wh ere houses are very cheap. In the story here, my real estate agent says “to Al aska,” not because Alaska is the cheapest place to live in the United States, bu t because it’s far, far away. It’s a long distance from where most of us live here, wh at we call the “continental United States,” the part of the United States betwe en Canada and Mexico. 

Now let’s listen to the dialog, or rather the story , this time at a normal speed. > I’m looking to buy a house and I want a single-fami ly home. I have been living in a townhouse for two years, and I am tired of having  common walls and very small yards. My new house will have to have a lot m ore square footage, a large lot size, an open floor plan, great curb appeal, an d lots of upgrades.  
> My agent has been showing me fixer-uppers, while I want a home that’s in move- in condition. The problem is, I can’t afford a high  mortgage. I’m not holding out for a mansion, but I want this new house to be a step u p from my townhouse. 
> My real estate agent tells me that I have to adjust  my expectations. I asked him, “Do you mean I can’t have the house I want?” And he  said, “Of course you can. All you have to do is move – to Alaska!”

 You don’t have to adjust your expectations when it comes to our scripts here on ESL Podcast. You can have very high expectations be cause they’ll always be met by our own wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse . 

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again here on ESL Podcast. 

English as a Second Language podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. Copyright 2012 by the  Center for Educational Development.

