# Betting on Sports

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 850: Betting on Sports

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 850. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is eslpod.com. If you want to get a com plete transcript of everything we say, in case there’s something you didn’t quite understand, go to our website and become an ESL Podcast Learning Guide member.

This episode is a dialog between Peter and Angela a bout betting – trying to win money by betting on sports. Let’s get started. > Peter:  Look at this! I just won 2,000 smackaroos!
> Angela:  Where did you get all that money?
> Peter:  I won it betting on the game last night. I placed a small wager with high odds and won big.
> Angela:  Wow, I always put money in the pools at wo rk, but I’ve never won anything like $2,000.
> Peter:  I’ll introduce you to my bookie if you want  to do some serious betting. But I warn you: he only deals in high-stakes wagers, no t penny ante bets.
> Angela:  You bet through a bookie? You must do some  serious gambling. I don’t think that’s for me.
> Peter:  You can’t win big if you don’t play big. I’ ve just placed a bet on this weekend’s game.
> Angela:  But the Minnesota McQ’s are the favorites by a wide margin.
> Peter:  There’s a 10-point point spread. Come on, w hat do you say? Are you in or out? I’ve just put $500 on it.
> Our dialog begins with Peter saying to Angela, “Loo k at this! I just won 2,000 smackaroos!” “Smackaroos” (smackaroos) is an inform al term, meaning dollars. It’s a little old. You don’t hear it that much anym ore. It was much more popular in the 20 th , mid 20 th  century, let’s say. But you’ll still hear someone say, “That cost 400 smackaroos” – 400 bucks, 400 dollars. Peter say s he just won 2,000 smackaroos. Angela says, “Where did you get all tha t money?” Peter says, “I won it betting on the game last night.” “To bet” (b et) is to try to win money by guessing how something is going to turn out in the future, who’s going to win the game, who’s going to win the election, which horse is going to race the fastest. Betting is guessing with your money, and if you’re right, of course, you get money back. If you’re wrong, you lose your money. That’s the whole idea.

We have betting legally in the state of Nevada, whi ch is next to California. We have betting in other cities and other places. Most  states, actually, probably have some form of betting. It may be the government spon soring the betting. It may be Native American or American Indian tribes, but bett ing is fairly common now in the U.S., at least, more common than it was forty y ears ago.

Peter says that he won the money betting on a game last night. “I placed a small wager with high odds and won big.” A “wager” (wager ) is the amount of money that you bet. Don’t confuse this with the word “wag e” (wage) which is the money you get for working. Many people get a wage and the n take their wages and they make wagers. Well, Peter made or placed a wager (ei ther verb is correct) with “high odds.” “High odds” means that the probability  or likelihood of something happening was very small. It’s a little confusing. If you say, this has high odds, we mean that if you win, you’ll win a lot of money back, but it’s not very likely that you will win. This is often expressed by using expr essions like “ten to one,” or “five to one.” You bet a dollar and if you win, you  get five dollars back. If it’s ten to one and you bet one dollar, you get ten dollars bac k. But ten to one might be considered high odds, meaning not very likely to ha ppen.

Well, Peter won by placing a small wager on somethi ng with high odds and he won big. He won a lot of money. Angela says, “Wow. I always put money in the pools at work, but I’ve never won anything like $2, 000.” The “pools” (pools) refers to betting pools. A “betting pool” is when everybod y puts in a small amount of money and you, for example, are trying to guess who ’s going to win a tournament where you have, let’s say, eight teams, eight baseball teams, or more likely, eight football teams playing in this t ournament, and eventually there’ll

be only one winner. You might have a pool where you  bet on a certain team and then when that team wins, everyone who bet on that team, who said that team was going to win, gets part of the money.

There aren’t any odds in betting pools. It’s not li ke ten to one or five to one. It just depends on how many people bet. The more people who  bet and the fewer people who bet on the winner, the more money those people will get. “Pools” sometimes are arranged so that there’s only one pos sibility. For some reason, in some offices in the U.S., it’s popular to have a po ol for the time that a baby will be born to someone who works in the office, and the  person who’s closest to the day and time wins the pool. There, there will proba bly be only one winner, but betting pools can have more than one winner.

Angela says she’s never won anything like $2,000, m eaning anything that she has won has been much less. Peter says, “I’ll intro duce you to my bookie if you want to do some serious betting.” “I’ll introduce y ou” – I will take you to this person, in this case, the “bookie.” A “bookie” (boo kie) is someone whose job it is to take money for people’s bets. “Bookies” usually are working illegally, at least, that’s the general use of the term. If somebody say s they have a “bookie,” usually it’s someone who is running these pools or taking b ets on games that are not legally sanctioned, that are not allowed by the gov ernment, but because it’s so common, it’s very difficult for the government to t ry to stop this sort of thing. Peter has a bookie, which usually means the person is a r ather serious gambler.

He says, “I’ll introduce you to my bookie if you wa nt to do some serious betting.” “Serious” here would mean significant, a lot. “But I warn you, he only deals in high-stakes wagers, not penny ante bets.” “High-sta kes” means a lot of money with, usually, a lot of risk involved. “Penny ante”  would be a very small amount of money. It’s a type of gambling where people wouldn’ t bet more than a dollar or two dollars, maybe five dollars. “High-stakes gambl ing” would be hundreds of dollars or, perhaps, even thousands of dollars that  you’re betting.

Angela says, “You bet through a bookie?” She’s a li ttle surprised because, as I mentioned, if you work with a bookie, if you have a  bookie for your bets, you’re probably a pretty serious better. “You must do some  serious gambling.” Notice the use of the word “serious” again. It means a lot  or a lot of money involved. “Gambling” is when you place bets on some future ev ent. “Gambling” and “betting” are basically the same thing. “Betting” a nd “gambling” usually deal with money, but you could bet or gamble on things that d id not involve money directly.

Angela says, “I don’t think that’s for me.” Peter s ays, “You can’t win big if you don’t play big.” What he means here is you can’t wi n a lot of money unless you

bet a lot of money. “I’ve just placed a bet on this  weekend’s game.” In many American offices, certainly in the offices that I’v e worked in, it’s not unusual, especially during American football season, for the re to be people betting on the football games of that weekend. Often you go throug h and you pick the winners of all of the games, however many there are – a doz en, two dozen, I don’t know. I don’t watch American football, but you bet on the  winner, and the person who gets the most winners wins the money. That’s a pret ty common practice in a lot of businesses and a lot of offices.

Peter says he’s just placed a bet on this weekend’s  game. We don’t know if it’s a basketball game or a football game or what it is. A ngela says, “But the Minnesota McQ’s are the favorite by a wide margin.” The Minne sota McQ’s is one of the best, of course, sports teams in whatever sport the y play. Angela says the Minnesota McQ’s are the “favorites” by a “wide marg in.” “To be the favorites” means to be the person or the team that is expected  to win this game. A “wide margin” means by a very large amount, or significan t amount. In other words, the Minnesota McQ’s are expected to win.

Peter says, “There’s a 10-point point spread.” We m ight more commonly just say a “ten point spread.” A “point spread” is a predict ion about the differences in the final scores of the games. So, for a specific game,  let’s say you have one very good team playing one not very good team in basketb all. There might be a 20 point spread, meaning the team that’s good has to w in by 20 points if you bet on them to win. If they don’t, even though they win the game, if they win it by less than 20 points, you don’t win the bet.

Peter says, “C’mon, what do you say?” “What do you say” is an informal phrase used to ask someone’s opinion or to ask for their d ecision when you’re trying to persuade them to do something. He says, “Are you in  or out?” meaning are you going to bet or not? “I’ve just put $500 on it.” An gela says, “That’s too rich for my blood.” The expression “to be too rich for your blo od” means it’s too expensive for you. It’s too much money.

She says, “I think I’ll stick to the minor leagues. ” “I think I’ll stick to” means I think I will continue, in this case, betting on things th at are less expensive or less important. In American baseball, we have the minor leagues and the major leagues. The minor leagues are the teams where the players aren’t as good and don’t get paid as much. The major leagues are the l arge teams where the players get millions of dollars. The Los Angeles Dodgers, f or example, is a major league baseball team, but the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes is a  minor league team that no one has ever heard of.

Now let’s listen to the dialog, this time at a normal speed.

[start of dialog]

Peter:  Look at this! I just won 2,000 smackaroos!

Angela:  Where did you get all that money?

Peter:  I won it betting on the game last night. I placed a small wager with high odds and won big.

Angela:  Wow, I always put money in the pools at wo rk, but I’ve never won anything like $2,000.

Peter:  I’ll introduce you to my bookie if you want  to do some serious betting. But I warn you: he only deals in high-stakes wagers, no t penny ante bets.

Angela:  You bet through a bookie? You must do some  serious gambling. I don’t think that’s for me.

Peter:  You can’t win big if you don’t play big. I’ ve just placed a bet on this weekend’s game.

Angela:  But the Minnesota McQ’s are the favorites by a wide margin.

Peter:  There’s a 10-point point spread. Come on, w hat do you say? Are you in or out? I’ve just put $500 on it.

Angela:  That’s too rich for my blood. I think I’ll  stick to the minor leagues.

[end of dialog]

She does some serious scriptwriting, our very own D r. Lucy Tse does. Thank you, Lucy!





