# Dealing With Corrupt Officials

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 844: Dealing with Corrupt Officials.  This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 844. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development, as always, in beautiful Los Angeles, California.   Our website is eslpod.com. Become a member of ESL Podcast. If you do, you’ll be able to download the Learning Guide for this episode, an eight to ten page guide we provide for all of our episodes that will help you improve your English faster than ever.  This episode is a dialog between Vera and Keigo about government officials, government workers, who aren’t honest. Let’s get started.  [start of dialog]  Vera:  I can’t believe that Stan has been arrested. I know that he wasn’t always on the up-and-up, but he’s being accused of influence peddling and taking bribes.  Keigo:  Stan has been getting kickbacks for years. Everybody knew that if you wanted to get what you wanted from this department, you had to grease Stan’s palms. There isn’t a more corrupt official than Stan.  Vera:  But he was always so nice to me.    Keigo:  That was part of the problem. He was always good to his friends and family. That’s why he’s also known for his nepotism and cronyism. He gave friends and family plum jobs with big salaries. He had an entire good old boy network.  Vera:  Do you really think he’ll go to jail?  Keigo:  I’m sure of it. On second thought, if he can find a judge who’s on the take and is as corrupt as he is, he has a fighting chance.  [end of dialog] 