# Being Arrested by the Police

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 857: Being Arrested by the Police.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 857. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development, in beautiful Los Angeles, California, home of ESL Podc ast.

This episode, like all of our episodes has a Learni ng Guide. You can get one by going to our website at ESLPod.com.

This episode is a story about someone, well, gettin g into trouble and being taken by the police. Let’s get started. > I was walking down the street minding my own busine ss one evening when I was stopped by a police officer.  After asking me a cou ple of questions about where I’d been, he told me to put my hands behind my back .  He was going to arrest me!  He handcuffed me and gave me the Miranda warni ng.  When I asked him why he was arresting me, he said that he had probab le cause to believe that I was the suspect they had been looking for in a robb ery that took place on the next street.
> I couldn’t believe it!  I was completely innocent, but the officer didn’t want to hear it.  He put me in the back of a police car and drov e me to the police station.  I was placed in a jail cell and, after a few hours, I  was taken to a room and interrogated.
> A police officer asked me question after question, and after four hours of questioning, I was finally released!  I found out l ater that it was a case of mistaken identity.  I looked very much like the sus pect they were looking for and I was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
> I could sue the police department for false arrest,  but I decided not to.  I’d rather put the entire thing behind me and hope that I’m ne ver that unlucky again!

Our story begins by me telling about how I was walk ing down the street, minding my own business. The expression “to mind (mind) you r own business” means

that you’re paying attention to your own affairs, y our own concerns, and you’re not becoming involved with any other situation – yo u’re not interacting or talking to other people. You’re not trying to cause problem s. We often use this expression when someone perhaps is getting involved  in something they shouldn’t be. We might say, “Mind you own business! ” Someone asked you questions about your ex-girlfriend and wants to kno w why the two of you stopped dating. You might say, “Mind your own business.”

Well, that’s what I was trying to do. I was trying not to get involved in anything as I was walking down the street. However, I was stopp ed by a police officer. A “police officer” is a person whose job it is to pro tect and defend people and the things people own, what we call “property,” and mak e sure everyone is obeying the law. A more informal term for a police officer is a “cop” (cop).

“After asking me a question about where I’ve been,”  I say, “he” – the police officer – “told me to put my hands behind my back” – put my hands or put my arms behind my back. The reason was that the office r was going to arrest me. “To arrest” (arrest) means for a police officer to take someone back to a police station and keep them there, often, for a very long  time if they think the person has committed a crime, has done something against the law.

The officer “handcuffed me.” “To handcuff (handcuff )” is to put these two circles of metal around your wrist that are connected so th at you can’t move your arms very easily. The noun is “handcuffs,” and the verb is “to handcuff.” “To handcuff” is to put handcuffs on someone’s wrist – on their a rms. The “Miranda warning” is something that is only done here in the United Stat es, at least, it’s only called the Miranda warning here. The Miranda warning is a stat ement that police officers have to make to people when they’re being arrested,  telling them that they have certain legal rights. They don’t have to talk to the police. “You have a right to remain silent,” we say. You don’t have to say anyth ing if you’re being arrested, at least, that’s the law. That doesn’t always happen of course. The Miranda warning is called the Miranda warning based on an old Supre me Court ruling – a decision made by our highest court many years ago, back in the 1960’s, I believe.

I continue the story by saying, “When I asked him w hy he was arresting me, he said that he had probable cause to believe that I w as the suspect they had been looking for.” “Probable (probable)” is related to the word “probably” and it means that it seems likely that something will happen, or  it seems likely that something is true. “Cause” (cause) is the reason for somethin g, why something happened. So, “probable cause” means we have a good reason – something that is likely to be true – to believe that you are involved in this crime. At least that’s how the phrase is used here in the story.

 We talk about police having probable cause. We mean  they have a good enough reason to arrest someone. Well, the officer thought  he had probable cause that I was the suspect. A “suspect” (suspect) is a person who you think has done something wrong. You’re not sure. It hasn’t been pr oven, but you have good reason to think this person committed the crime – d id something against the law. In this case, the crime was a “robbery” (robbery). A “robbery” is when you steal or take something, especially money or some other obje ct without someone’s permission. That would be robbery.

I then say, “I couldn’t believe it. I was completel y innocent.” “To be innocent (innocent)” is the opposite of “guilty,”  when you have not done anything wrong. I say that “I was completely innocent but the officer ” – the police officer – “didn’t want to hear it.” He didn’t want to listen to me. “ He put me in the back of a police car and drove to the police station.” The “police s tation” is the building where the police officers work. Big cities like Los Angeles h ave several police stations located in different parts of the city.

“I was placed in a jail cell.” A “jail (jail) cell (cell)” is a small room in a jail or a prison where one or two, maybe a few more prisoners  are kept – where they are put so that they don’t leave. “After a few hours, I  was taken to a room and interrogated.” The verb “to interrogate” (interroga te) means to ask a lot of questions, often in a very, what we might call “agg ressive” way, maybe even an angry way. The verb is used whenever the police are  asking questions, not because they always ask in an aggressive, angry way , but because they want to find out what the truth is.

So, the verb doesn’t necessarily have to be a negat ive one, in the sense that you’re angry when you’re asking the question. But it’s only used, typically, when we’re talking about the police or maybe a member of  the military interrogating a prisoner, something like that. “A police officer as ked me question after question,” I say, “and after four hours of questioning, I was finally released.” “To release” (release) means to let someone go from the place wh ere you were holding that person. Normally, we talk about being released from  prison. But a student might also be released from school, just kind of like a p rison, I guess, sometimes.

“I found out later that it was a case of mistaken i dentity.” “Mistaken” comes from the word “mistake,” which means an error, something  that went wrong. “Identity” refers to who a person is. So, “mistaken identity” would be being wrong about who you think a person is. Someone came up to me an d thought I was Brad Pitt and wanted my autograph, I said, “Well, okay.” It r eally was a case of mistaken identity.

 “I looked very much like the suspect they were look ing for,” I continue, “and I was in the wrong place at the wrong time.” That’s an ol d expression – “to be in a wrong place at the wrong time.” It means you were s omewhere where you were innocent, you weren’t doing anything wrong but just  by luck, you were in a bad situation or you were at a place at the wrong time,  at a time when something bad happened. “I could sue the police for false arrest but I decided not to.” “To sue” means to go to a judge, go to a court and ask for m oney. It’s possible if a police officer arrests you and did something wrong in that  process. You could sue the police department for false arrest. “False arrest” is a situation where you are taken by the police but they didn’t do it properly.  They should not have arrested you. “False,” of course, is, in this case, sort of wrong or mistaken. “I’d rather put the entire thing behind me,” I say. “To put somethi ng behind you” means to forget about it, to act as though it never happened. That’ s usually a good idea for bad relationships, just put them behind you, forget abo ut them – “move on,” we would say.

Now let’s listen to the dialog this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

I was walking down the street minding my own busine ss one evening when I was stopped by a police officer.  After asking me a cou ple of questions about where I’d been, he told me to put my hands behind my back .  He was going to arrest me!  He handcuffed me and gave me the Miranda warni ng.  When I asked him why he was arresting me, he said that he had probab le cause to believe that I was the suspect they had been looking for in a robb ery that took place on the next street.

I couldn’t believe it!  I was completely innocent, but the officer didn’t want to hear it.  He put me in the back of a police car and drov e me to the police station.  I was placed in a jail cell and, after a few hours, I  was taken to a room and interrogated.

A police officer asked me question after question, and after four hours of questioning, I was finally released!  I found out l ater that it was a case of mistaken identity.  I looked very much like the sus pect they were looking for and I was in the wrong place at the wrong time.

I could sue the police department for false arrest,  but I decided not to.  I’d rather put the entire thing behind me and hope that I’m ne ver that unlucky again!

[end of story]

There’s no mistaking the identity of our scriptwrit er. It’s the one, the only, Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you, Lucy. From Los Angeles, Califo rnia, I’m Jeff McQuillan, thank you for listening. Come back and listen to us  again, right here on ESL Podcast.



