# Using Caffeine as a Stimulant

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 870: Using Caffeine as a Stimulant 

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 870. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there, download a Lea rning Guide, become a member of ESL Podcast.  

This episode is a dialog between Joan and Roberto, about using caffeine, what people often have in their coffee to keep them awak e, as a stimulant. Let’s get started. > Joan:  Hi, how are you?  What are you doing?  What is this? 
> Roberto:  Whoa!  You’re very high-strung this morni ng. 
> Joan:  Am I?  I am a little wired.  I’ve been up al l night trying to finish an assignment for one of my classes. 
> Roberto:  You don’t seem tired at all for having be en up all night.  In fact, you seem to be bouncing off the walls. 
> Joan:  What are you trying to imply?  Sorry, I didn ’t mean to snap at you.  I’ve been drinking a lot of coffee and energy drinks.  I  still have a lot of caffeine in my system. 
> Roberto:  That’s for sure.  You seem agitated from too many stimulants.  
> Joan:  Well, I needed to stay awake, so as soon as I felt drowsy, I’d have another dose of caffeine.  It gave me an instant jolt! 
> Roberto:  But you’re done with your assignment now,  right? 
> Joan:  Yes. 
> Joan begins our dialog by saying to Roberto, “Hi, h ow are you? What are you doing? What is this?” Roberto says, “Whoa! You’re v ery high-strung this morning.” “Whoa” (whoa) is just an expression of em otion, when you’re surprised about something. Joan seems to be very excited.  Sh e’s coming in and she starts asking all of these questions – “Hi, how are you? W hat are you doing? What is this?” That’s why Roberto says, “Whoa!” – often sai d as well when we want someone to slow down, to speak slower.  

Roberto says to Joan, “You’re very high-strung this  morning.” “To be high- (high) strung (strung)” means to have a lot of tension, a lot of anxiety, someone who is not relaxed, someone who is very tense – a young ch ild, for example, who’s always jumping up and down and yelling and running around and all the things my neighbor’s children do. We might describe those children as being high- strung. Joan says, “Am I?” Am I high-strung? “I’m j ust a little wired,” she says. “Wired” (wired) here means you have a lot of energy , a lot of excitement, usually because you are using some sort of drug or medicine  that is making you very excited, very “energetic,” we might say.  

Joan says, “I’ve been up all night trying to finish  an assignment for one of my classes.” “To be up all night” means to stay awake throughout the entire night. You never go to bed. You never go to sleep. Joan is  obviously a typical student who has waited until the very last day to finish he r homework. In this case, she calls it an “assignment,” which is basically someth ing you’re required to do for your classes.  

Roberto says, “You don’t seem tired at all.” You do n’t seem even a little bit sleepy or tired. “In fact, you seem to be bouncing off the walls.” The expression “to bounce (bounce) off the walls” means again to h ave a lot of energy, to be very active – almost too active, like you can’t quite co ntrol yourself. “To bounce” is to take an object like a ball, throw it down on the gr ound or against a wall, and have it come back to you. We talk about bouncing a baske tball, for example. Well, the expression “to be bouncing off the walls” means tha t you’re like a ball that is hitting one wall and then it bounces. It hits anoth er wall and it bounces. It doesn’t stop moving. It’s very active.  

Joan says, “What are you trying to imply?” “To impl y” (imply) means to say something indirectly, not in a direct way, to sugge st something but not to say it specifically or in detail. “He implied that I wasn’ t doing my work.” He didn’t say to me, “You’re not doing your work,” but he made other  comments, he made other statements that gave me the idea that that was he w as really trying to tell me. Joan is asking what Roberto is implying by his comm ents that she seems to be bouncing off the walls.  

Then she apologizes, since the expression or the qu estion, “What are you trying to imply?” is often one someone will use when they think the other person is criticizing them. She says, “Sorry. I didn’t mean t o snap at you.” “To snap (snap) at someone” means to say something to someone in an  angry way – when you are mad, when you are upset – without thinking abou t it first. If you’re tired, you might sometimes snap at your husband or snap at you r wife or snap at your children because you’re not thinking. You get angry  with them and before you can really think about it, you say something negati ve to them.  

Joan says, “I’ve been drinking a lot of coffee and energy drinks.” “Energy drinks” are drinks that have ingredients that are supposed to keep you awake and give you more energy. These are very popular among, for example, college students, who are always going out and drinking and partying and then when they have to do their schoolwork, they have to stay up all night  just like Joan did. So, they have these energy drinks.  

The most common ingredient – the most common thing you will find in these drinks – is caffeine. And that’s what Joan says, “I  still have a lot of caffeine in my system.” “Caffeine” (caffeine) is a chemical substa nce found in coffee, in black tea, in certain kind of sodas, in chocolate, that g ives a lot of people energy when they consume it, when it enters into their body. I drink coffee now, every day. For a while, I was just drinking tea but now I’ve switc hed back to coffee and I have caffeine in my coffee. In the morning, I like to ha ve a cup of coffee and that caffeine wakes me up a little – gets me going.  

The expression “to be in your system” means the sam e as to be in your body. The chemicals are still in your body and they’re af fecting you still. Roberto says, “That’s for sure.” Yes, you do have a lot of caffei ne in your system, he’s saying. “You seem to be agitated from too many stimulants.”  “To be agitated” (agitated) means to be nervous, to be excited, perhaps to be a  little upset, with a lot of extra energy – similar to being wired, except agitated ca n often be something negative, when someone is upset about something. “Stimulants”  (stimulants) is any food, medicine, or chemical substance that makes your bod y more alert, more active,  

that allows you, for example, to stay awake longer.  Caffeine is a kind of stimulant but there are other chemical stimulants as well.  

Joan says, “Well, I needed to stay awake.” “To stay  awake” means not to fall asleep, not to allow yourself to fall asleep. Remem ber, Joan was staying up all night to finish her homework. She says, “As soon as  I felt drowsy, I’d have another dose of caffeine.” “Drowsy” (drowsy) is ver y sleepy, very tired. It means you’re almost falling asleep. “I feel really drowsy ” or “I am very drowsy” – that means you’re just about to fall asleep. I hope none  of you are feeling drowsy right now. I’ll try to keep you going, wake you up.  

Our next expression will help do that. It’s a “dose  of caffeine.” “Dose” (dose) is usually a word we use in medicine, talking about th e mount of medicine you should take at a certain time. So, if the doctor gi ves you some pills to take, he may say, “Take two of these pills every morning.” T hat is your dose. That is the amount of medicine you’re supposed to take. Well, a  “dose of caffeine” would be an amount of caffeine that will keep you wake.  

Joan says, “It gave me an instant jolt.” “Instant” means suddenly, immediately, something that happens right away. A “jolt” (jolt) is a large and sudden increase in energy or enthusiasm or, sometimes, activity. So  someone says, “I’m going to give you a jolt.” I’m going to give you a lot of en ergy, get you moving again. We often use the word with another type of stimulant –  “a jolt of caffeine,” “a jolt of adrenaline,” which is sort of your body’s natural w ay of getting you excited, getting you energized. That’s a jolt.  

Roberto says, “But you’re done with your assignment  now, right?” You’re finished with your homework. Joan says, “Yes.” Robert says, “And you have a few hours before your class. So, why don’t you get some sleep ?” He’s suggesting that Joan sleep for a few hours until her class begins. Joan says, “Sleep? Sleep?! I don’t know the meaning of the word.” This expression – “I  don’t know the meaning of the word,” or of sleep, in this case – is used to s how that what that person is talking about, that word or phrase, isn’t applicabl e to you. It doesn’t apply to you. You can’t really understand it. We use it as a joke , this expression. When we say, “I don’t know the meaning of the word ‘work’,” that  would be someone who is making a joke, saying that they’re very lazy, that they don’t like to work. They don’t even know what work is. That’s the idea. I’m a little like that. 

Now let’s listen to the dialog this time, at a norm al speed. 

[start of story] 

Joan:  Hi, how are you?  What are you doing?  What is this? 

Roberto:  Whoa!  You’re very high-strung this morni ng. 

Joan:  Am I?  I am a little wired.  I’ve been up al l night trying to finish an assignment for one of my classes. 

Roberto:  You don’t seem tired at all for having be en up all night.  In fact, you seem to be bouncing off the walls. 

Joan:  What are you trying to imply?  Sorry, I didn ’t mean to snap at you.  I’ve been drinking a lot of coffee and energy drinks.  I  still have a lot of caffeine in my system. 

Roberto:  That’s for sure.  You seem agitated from too many stimulants.  

Joan:  Well, I needed to stay awake, so as soon as I felt drowsy, I’d have another dose of caffeine.  It gave me an instant jolt! 

Roberto:  But you’re done with your assignment now,  right? 

Joan:  Yes. 

Roberto:  And you have a few hours before your clas s, so why don’t you get some sleep? 

Joan:  Sleep?  Sleep?!  I don’t know the meaning of  the word! 

[end of story] 

Her scripts are always stimulating, interesting, an d exciting. I speak, of course, of our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse.  

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan, t hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again, right here on ESL Podc ast. 

English as a Second Language Podcast is written and  produced by Dr. Lucy Tse, hosted by Dr. Jeff McQuillan. Copyright 2013 by the  Center for Educational Development.

