# Making a Will

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 943 – Making a Will.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 943. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there. Become a membe r of ESL Podcast. Download the Learning Guide for this episode.

This episode is a story about making a will – a pla n for what happens to your property when you are no longer on this earth. Let' s get started.  > Last week, I got a wake-up call. One of my oldest f riends from high school died suddenly in an accident, leaving no will. With no e state planning at all, his assets went into probate and his dependents were left in l imbo.
> My friend was a young man, the same age as me. At o ur age, who thinks about estate planning? Well, he should have, and I’m star ting right now to put my affairs in order.
> I’ve already decided who will be my beneficiaries a nd how much of an inheritance each family member will get. One big de cision I’m still thinking about is who should be my executor. I want to make sure m y bequests are carried out and my assets are properly disposed of, so this per son has to be trustworthy.
> After I make those decisions, I’ll write a holograp hic will. It’s the simplest way of drawing up a will and adding codicils without an at torney, and since I’m still of sound mind, there shouldn’t be any problems. I’ll a sk my neighbors to be witnesses.
> Before I start drawing up my will, though, I still have one other important decision to make. Who should get custody of my eight cats?

This episode is about the happy topic of death – wh at happens not to you when you die, but to everything that you own. We’re talk ing in this story about making a

will. A “will” (will) is a legal document saying wh at should happen to your money and the other things that you own after you die. If  you want to give your car, when you die, to your friend, you have to put that in your will. It's a written, typically, statement that says what you want to hav e happen to your property, to the things you own, after you die.

Our story begins when I say, “Last week, I got a wa ke-up call.” “To wake up” means to stop sleeping, to be conscious again. A “w ake-up call” is when someone calls you, for example, at a hotel to wake you up in the morning. Hotels used to do that – some hotels still do – back befor e they put alarm clocks in all of the rooms, which is pretty common nowadays in most hotels. You could ask the hotel to call you on the telephone and wake you up at a certain hour. As I said, there are many hotels that still do that.

The expression “to get a wake-up call,” however, is  a little different. It means to experience something surprising, something shocking , or to see someone else experience something, often negative, that makes yo u think again about your own life and what you are doing with your life. “To  get a wake-up call” is always used to indicate that you are seeing something or r ealizing something that you didn't realize before, and now your view of the wor ld is a little different.

I said, “I got a wake-up call. One of my oldest fri ends from high school died suddenly in an accident, leaving no will.” This did  not actually happen. It's just a story, but it could happen. Someone dies in an acci dent and doesn't leave a will, doesn't leave a legal statement saying where they want their property to go. “With no estate planning at all, his assets went in to probate and his dependents were left in limbo.”

The word “estate” (estate) can mean a couple of dif ferent things. Here, it refers to all the money and things that you own when you die.  That's your estate. “Estate planning” is deciding before you die what is going to happen to your things and, more importantly, how to make things easy for the p eople who you will give your things to. “Estate planning” could include things l ike making sure that the government doesn't take all of what you have in ord er to pay taxes, because in most places, in many places in the U.S., you have t o pay taxes to the government, especially if you have a lot of money w hen you die.

“Assets” (assets) refers to something you own, some thing that has value. It could be money. It could be jewelry. It could be a house.  All of those are assets. The word “probate” (probate) refers to the legal proces s where the government – the courts – decide how your assets are going to be giv en out. The technical word we would use here is “distributed.” “How will your assets be distributed?” If you

die and you don't leave a will, then the government  determines who gets your money based on certain laws and rules that have bee n set up for that situation.

A “dependent” is a person who is financially depend ing on or financially connected to another person, usually someone who do esn't have their own job or doesn't have another source of income, or at least not very much income. “To be left in limbo” (limbo) means to be in an uncertain condition, uncertain situation. You're not quite sure what the final decision is go ing to be about what you're going to get, in this case. “To be left in limbo” m eans to not know what is going to happen to you. This is typically used when someone has to make a decision about something, but he or she hasn't made that dec ision yet.

In the story, I say that my friend did not have any  estate planning, so “his assets went into probate and his dependents were left in l imbo.” The government is going to decide who gets his money, and the people who were depending on him – the people who were perhaps receiving money from him when he died – now are in a situation where they don't know what they' re going to get. “My friend was a young man,” I say, “the same age as me.” Well, I' m not that young, but young enough. “At our age,” I say, “who thinks about esta te planning?” People who are young don't think about dying and what will happen to them when they die, so they don't think about things like wills and estate  planning.

“Well,” I continue, “he should have” – meaning he s hould have thought of that – “and I'm starting right now to put my affairs in or der.” The expression “to put your affairs (affairs) in order” means to prepare for yo ur death by making sure all of your documents are in place for the people who have  to come after you and take care of your assets. To make sure that you have a w ill would be another part of putting your affairs in order. It's an expression w e use when someone is getting ready to die, in a way, or at least getting prepare d in case they do die.

I then say, “I've already decided who will be my be neficiaries and how much of an inheritance each family member will get.” A “ben eficiary” is a person who receives some benefit, often a person who receives money or other things after someone else dies. “Beneficiaries” could also get m oney from, for example, an insurance policy. “Inheritance” refers to the money  or the things that a person will actually get. We use the verb “to leave someone.” “ I'm going to leave you my car.” That means that when I die, your inheritance – the thing that you will get from me – is my car. Or my bike. I'm not sure if I want to give you my car, but definitely my bicycle.

I continue, “One big decision I'm still thinking ab out is who should be my executor.” The “executor” (executor) is the person who is responsible for taking

care of your affairs, your financial affairs, after  you die. “I want to make sure my bequests are carried out,” I say. A “bequest” (bequ est) is another word for the money or property that is given to a person or to a n organization – to a beneficiary – after you die. It's similar to the id ea of an inheritance. The word “inheritance” usually refers to a family member, so meone you are related to. If that person gets something, you could call that an inheritance. If it's another person, a friend, or an organization, we would talk  about a “bequest.”

I want to make sure that my bequest is carried out – that the money actually goes to the people I want my money to go to. I also talk  about my assets being “properly disposed of,” meaning the person who is m y executor does with the money what I want him to do with the money. “After I make those decisions, I’ll write a holographic will.” A “holographic (holograp hic) will” is a will that is written by hand. That's all the word “holographic” means he re. Written by hand, not typed on a typewriter – if you still own a typewrit er – or on a keyboard or computer and then printed out on a printer. Those t ypes of wills are not holographic wills. A holographic will is written by  hand, the old way.

I say that a holographic will is the “simplest way of drawing up a will and adding codicils without an attorney.” “To draw up” somethi ng, or “to draw something up,” means to prepare and write out a document, especial ly a formal document. “We’re going to draw up a contract” – we’re going t o prepare an agreement to buy a new house. “To draw up the will” would mean t o prepare the will: to write it down, to get it ready so that it can be used. A “co dicil” (codicil) is like an amendment to your will. It's something that you add  to your will after you have written it. Maybe you've changed your mind about gi ving your car to your nephew. You can write a codicil giving your car to someone else, or your bike.

Then I say, “Since I'm still of sound mind, there s houldn't be any problems.” The expression “sound mind” is often used in legal situ ations. It means the person is rational, is able to think clearly. Basically, that  the person isn't crazy. In order to write and sign a will, you have to be of sound mind . If you're not, then the government may not carry out the terms of your will  – what you say you want done in your will after you die.

I then say, “I'll ask my neighbors to be witnesses. ” A “witness” in this case is a person who sees you sign the will yourself. A witne ss is saying, “Yes, this person actually signed the will, and I was there to see it .” Witnesses are required for certain kinds of special contracts or documents, in cluding a will.

I end by saying, “Before I start drawing up my will , though, I still have one other important decision to make. Who should get custody of my eight cats?” “Custody”

(custody) refers to the responsibility that a perso n has to take care of someone such as a young child or an animal. When a husband and wife divorce, someone gets custody of the children. Perhaps the mother ge ts custody of the children, meaning she will be the one who is primarily respon sible for the child and has the legal authority to make decisions for the child.

We don't talk about custody for someone who is an a dult and who is of sound mind. If you have some sort of mental difficulties,  then it's possible that someone would have custody of you. They would have the lega l authority and right to make decisions for you. We don't normally talk abou t getting custody of an animal, and certainly not a cat. That last sentence  is a good indication that this story is completely made-up.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.  > Last week, I got a wake-up call. One of my oldest f riends from high school died suddenly in an accident, leaving no will. With no e state planning at all, his assets went into probate and his dependents were left in l imbo.
> My friend was a young man, the same age as me. At o ur age, who thinks about estate planning? Well, he should have, and I’m star ting right now to put my affairs in order.
> I’ve already decided who will be my beneficiaries a nd how much of an inheritance each family member will get. One big de cision I’m still thinking about is who should be my executor. I want to make sure m y bequests are carried out and my assets are properly disposed of, so this per son has to be trustworthy.
> After I make those decisions, I’ll write a holograp hic will. It’s the simplest way of drawing up a will and adding codicils without an at torney, and since I’m still of sound mind, there shouldn’t be any problems. I’ll a sk my neighbors to be witnesses.
> Before I start drawing up my will, though, I still have one other important decision to make. Who should get custody of my eight cats?

Our greatest asset here at ESL Podcast is, of cours e, our script writer – the wonderful Dr. Lucy Tse.

