# Running a Family-Owned Business

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 956 – Running a Family-Owned Business.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 956. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there. Become a membe r. Download a Learning Guide for this episode.

This episode is a story about someone who manages, or runs, a business owned by members of his family. Let’s get started.  > When I took over the family business three years ag o, I didn’t know what I was letting myself in for. My uncle, who ran the busine ss before me, established a clear chain of command, which I thought would elimi nate infighting and bickering. I couldn’t have been more wrong.
> Despite clear lines of authority, family members te nd to take sides and play the blame game whenever anything goes wrong. In the end , they always look to me to resolve conflict, and I have no choice but to en ter the fray.
> Another big problem is the hangers-on. Those are the family members who aren’t suited for this line of work, but who need jobs. What do I DO with them?
> What do you do when everything falls on your should ers? Well, I’ve developed a thick skin, and when someone inevitably reminds me that blood is thicker than water, I remind them that business is business.

I begin our story by saying, “When I took over the family business.” “To take over” means to take control of, to take ownership of – to become the person who runs and manages an organization or, in this case, a company. “The family business” just means a business, a company, that yo ur family owns. I say that I “took over the family business three years ago.”

But, I say, “I didn't know what I was letting mysel f in for.” The expression “to let yourself in for” something means to put yourself in  a difficult or challenging situation without realizing it, without knowing it.  We might say “unintentionally.” I didn't realize I was going to be putting myself int o such a difficult situation when I took over the family business three years ago.

I said, “My uncle, who ran the business before me, established a clear chain of command.” A “chain (chain) of command” is the struc ture in an organization that determines who is responsible to whom, or who repor ts to whom. In other words, I have a boss, and my boss has a boss, and my boss’ s boss has a boss. The chain of command goes from me, to my boss, to my bo ss’s boss, to my boss’s boss’s boss, if that isn't too confusing. That's a “chain of command.”

We also talk about a chain of command in the milita ry – in the army, for example. At the top of the chain of command, at least in the  United States, is the “commander in chief.” That's the president of the U nited States. He gives orders to the general, who is head of the army, and the ge neral gives orders to the colonel, who gives orders to the major, who gives o rders to the captain, who gives orders to the lieutenant, who gives orders to  the sergeant, who gives orders to the corporal, who gives orders to the pri vate. That's the chain of command. That's who reports to whom, in the army an yway.

In a company, usually there is a CEO and perhaps a president, then you have a vice president, and under the vice president you ha ve other company bosses, company officials. There is a chain of command. A “ clear chain of command” is one that everyone knows and understands. In the arm y, there's a very clear chain of command. In companies there is usually a c lear chain of command that everyone knows about, but not always.

However, in the case of our family-owned business, even though there is a clear chain of command, that does not “eliminate infighti ng and bickering.” “To eliminate” (eliminate) means to get rid of somethin g, to not have something anymore. “Infighting” (infighting) is fighting with in a group or within an organization, within a family. “Infighting” relates  to conflicts or disagreements that people have in a group, usually a small group such as a family. “Bickering” (bickering) comes from the verb “to bicker” (bicker ). “To bicker” means to disagree, to argue, to fight – but using words, not  your fists or a weapon.

I say, “I couldn't have been more wrong.” I thought  the chain of command would eliminate infighting and bickering, but I was wrong . That's what I mean by the expression, “I couldn't have been more wrong.” I wa s very wrong. I say, “Despite clear lines of authority, family members tend to ta ke sides.” “Clear lines of

authority” is similar to a “clear chain of command. ” It's really the same thing. Even though we have clear lines of authority in the comp any, “family members still tend to take sides.” “Tend to” means they often or typically do something. Here, what they do is take sides.

“To take sides” means to show who you are in favor of and who you are against – who you support and who you oppose. I think what the story is saying here is that even though there are clear lines of authority , people don't follow them. People don't respect the authority of the people ab ove them, perhaps. Instead, they do what happens in most families, in most larg e families, anyway: they take sides. They decide that John is right and Mary is w rong, and so whenever there's a disagreement between John and Mary, they're going  to “side with” John. They're going to “take John's side,” we could say. They are going to support John.

I say family members also “play the blame game when ever anything goes wrong.” “To play the blame (blame) game” means to s ay that you are not responsible for anything that goes wrong. “It's not  my fault – it's her fault,” or “It's his fault.” You never take responsibility for thing s that go wrong. “To blame” someone means to tell them that they did something wrong. They are responsible for something bad that happened.

“In the end,” I say, meaning after all of these dis agreements and all of this bickering, “they,” meaning my family members, “alwa ys look to me to resolve conflict.” “To look to” someone means to go to some one expecting he or she will solve your problem or will take care of whatever is  wrong. “To look to” someone means not to take responsibility yourself, not to make the decision yourself, but to expect someone else to do it. My family looks to  me to resolve conflict. “To resolve conflict” (conflict) means to find a way to  end an argument, to end a disagreement.

I say, “I have no choice” – I have no option – “but  to enter the fray.” “To enter the fray” (fray) means to participate or join an argume nt. Another problem I have in the story is “hangers-on.” A “hanger (hanger) - on (on)” is a person who joins a group so they can get the benefits of that group, b ut doesn't actually do anything – often doesn't do the work they're supposed to do.  In this case, it would be family members who have jobs in the company but don 't work very much.

I say these hangers-on are “the family members who aren’t suited for this line of work.” “To be suited” (suited) means to have the qu alifications for something, to be prepared for something. A “line of work” is a ki nd of work, a type of job. My family members who aren't suited for this line of w ork – whatever the family

business is – still need jobs, and I don't know wha t to do with them. I say, “What do you do when everything falls on your shoulders?”  “To fall on your shoulders” means to be your responsibility, especially when it  is a difficult or challenging situation.

I say, “I've developed a thick skin.” The term “thi ck skin” means the ability to not be affected negatively by bad things that are happe ning, especially when things are said about you – when people criticize you, whe n they say bad things about you. “To have a thick skin” means not to be affecte d by that – to say, “Oh, whatever. I don't care.” The opposite of a “thick s kin” would be “thin skin.” If someone says I have “thin skin,” they mean I am eas ily affected by criticisms. When someone says something bad about me, I feel hu rt.

I say, to conclude our story, “When someone inevita bly reminds me that blood is thicker than water, I remind them that business is business.” “Inevitability” means unavoidably – something that will almost certainly happen. Someone always reminds me of an old expression in English, which is “blood is thicker than water.” The meaning of that expression is that fami ly relationships are stronger and more important than other relationships, such a s friendships. The blood that you share with your family members is thicker, and therefore stronger, than the water, if you will, that you share with your friend s.

In other words, your family relationships are more important and should be stronger than your relationships with your friends.  If you have to choose between your family and your friends, you should choose you r family. When someone tells me this, meaning that I should look out for, or be protective of, or loyal to my family, I remind that person that “businesses is bu siness.” This is another expression we use in American English. “Business is  business” means that we need to make decisions in the company that are good  for the company. Good for the business – not good for, in this case, the fami ly members.

The expression “businesses is business” is usually used in cases where someone is saying that a business should make a dec ision based upon some personal reason or some reason that has nothing to do with the economic well- being of the company. “Is this going to help the co mpany or hurt the company?” That's what we're trying to say in the expression “ business is business.”

People might also say in this situation, “I don't want to mix personal things with business” or “I don't want to mix family with busin ess.” They mean they want to make their business decisions based upon the things  that are important for the business, not for one's family or friends.

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

When I took over the family business three years ag o, I didn’t know what I was letting myself in for. My uncle, who ran the busine ss before me, established a clear chain of command, which I thought would elimi nate infighting and bickering. I couldn’t have been more wrong.

Despite clear lines of authority, family members te nd to take sides and play the blame game whenever anything goes wrong. In the end , they always look to me to resolve conflict, and I have no choice but to en ter the fray.

Another big problem is the hangers-on. Those are the family members who aren’t suited for this line of work, but who need jobs. What do I do with them?

What do you do when everything falls on your should ers? Well, I’ve developed a thick skin, and when someone inevitably reminds me that blood is thicker than water, I remind them that business is business.

[end of story]

Our scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse, is definitely suite d for her line of work – scriptwriting.

From Los Angeles, California, I'm Jeff McQuillan. Thanks for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st.

