# Dealing with a Mass Transit Strike

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 989 – Dealing with a Mass Transit Strike.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 989. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.   Visit our website at ESLPod.com. Download a Learning Guide by becoming a member of ESL Podcast. You can also like us on Facebook at facebook.com/eslpod.   This episode is a dialogue about a strike – when workers decide to stop working in order to negotiate for more money or more benefits at their job. We’re dealing today with a mass transit strike. That involves buses and subways and other means of transportation that people use in the city. Let’s get started.   [start of dialogue]  Marge: Where have you been? You should have been home over two hours ago!  Homer: I’ve been trying to get home. Haven’t you been watching the news? The Transportation Workers Union has voted to strike. There was a mass walkout at 4:30 p.m. today.  Marge: You’re kidding! I didn’t know anything about it. They walked off the job right before the afternoon commute?  Homer: Yeah, I think it was calculated to make the biggest impact so that the powers that be will sit up and take notice.  Marge: You mean the walkout has halted services on all public transportation – all buses, trains, and subways?  Homer: Yes, that’s right. Everything is at a standstill. There are a lot of disgruntled commuters out there.   Marge: When will services be restored?  Homer: I have no idea. I imagine things won’t get back to normal before tomorrow morning’s commute. 