# Recording an Outgoing Voice Mail Message

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 968 – Recording an Outgoing Voice Mail Message.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 968. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there and become a me mber of ESL Podcast, won’t you? If you do, you can download the Learning  Guide for this episode.

This episode is about recording a message that peop le will hear when they call you on the phone and you don’t answer. Let’s get st arted.  > I hate the sound of my own voice. I always have. Wh en I’m speaking to an audience, I always sound forced and unnatural. So w hen we had to set up our new voice mail system’s outgoing message, it took m e a few tries to get it right.
> “Hello, you’ve reached Martin Navra at McQ Corp. I’ m not available to take your call right now. Please leave a message and I’ll cal l you back as soon as I can. Thank you for calling.”
> No, that wasn’t quite right. I gave it another shot .
> “Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail for Martin Na vra at McQ Corp. I’m in a meeting or away from my desk. Please leave a messag e and I’ll call you back as soon as I can. If your call is urgent, please conta ct Julia Mann at 555-434-3232. Thank you.”
> That seemed okay, but since I was leaving on vacati on next week, I needed to record a temporary outgoing message as well. This is what I came up with:
> “Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail of Martin Nav ra at McQ Corp. I will be on vacation from March 3rd through March 10th. If you need to reach someone immediately, please call Julia Mann at 555-434-3232 , or dial “0” to reach reception. Otherwise, please leave a message and I’ ll return your call when I return. Thank you.”
> Our story begins with Martin saying, “I hate the so und of my own voice.” A lot of people say that. They don’t like to hear themselves  in a recording. The person in our story says that he hates the sound of his own v oice. “I always have,” he says. “When I’m speaking to an audience, I always sound f orced and unnatural.” “Forced” (forced) here means trying to do something  but having difficulty doing it in a natural way. Something that is “forced” is som ething that you know the person is having difficulty doing.

“Unnatural” is the opposite of “natural.” “Natural”  is when you do something without thinking about it so that it seems complete ly normal. “Unnatural” would be something that is somehow not normal. Martin contin ues, “So when we had to set up our new voice mail system’s outgoing message , it took me a few tries to get it right.” “To set up” something, or “to set so mething up,” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to get something ready to do s omething, especially if you are using it for the first time. If you buy a new t elevision from a store, and you bring it back to your house or apartment, you have to set it up; you have to connect the cables and get it ready so that you can  use it.

Martin is setting up his new voice mail system’s ou tgoing message. “Voice mail” is the system that records a message when you are n ot there to answer the phone. In the old days, we used to have little answ ering machines with small cassette tapes in them that would record messages. Nowadays, it’s more common that your phone company will set up a “voice  mail box,” they’re called, for you.

Basically, it’s a place on their computers that the y store the messages that people leave for you, and then you can call in and get the messages from the computer that recorded them. This is a system that is quite common in many places, and it is often used in companies so that the employees can receive messages even when they are not answering their pho ne.

Martin is setting up his new voice mail system’s ou tgoing message. Your “outgoing (outgoing) message” is the message that p eople hear when they call you. “Hi. I can’t come to the phone right now. Plea se leave a message and I’ll call you later” – that would be a typical outgoing messa ge on someone’s personal phone. “I can’t come to the phone right now” means I am not able to answer the

phone. Then you tell the person to leave a message and you will call them back later.

In our story, Martin is trying to set up his outgoi ng message, but he says, “It took me a few tries to get it right.” A “try” (try), as a noun, is an attempt – your effort to do something. “Tries” would be trying to do it more  than once – many different attempts. We then hear Martin’s first outgoing mess age, the first one he records:

“Hello, you’ve reached Martin Navra at McQ Corp. I’ m not available to take your call right now. Please leave a message and I’ll cal l you back as soon as I can. Thank you for calling.”

The outgoing message begins by Martin identifying h imself – telling people his name. This is always a good idea in your outgoing m essage, to let people know what your name is so they know that they have reach ed the correct person, that they have gotten the right person for whom they can  leave a message. Martin continues, “I’m not available to take your call.” W hen you say you’re “not available,” you mean you are not able to because yo u are busy doing other things like listening to podcasts or reading your e mail or watching videos of cats on YouTube. You know, important things.

Martin says, “Please leave a message and I’ll call you back as soon as I can.” “Please leave a message” – please give me the infor mation you want to give me, which should include, of course, your name and your  telephone number. “And,” Martin says, “I’ll call you back as soon as I can.”  “To call someone back” means to return their telephone call. They call you, then  you call them. That’s “calling someone back.”

Martin is not satisfied. He doesn’t like his first try at recording his outgoing message. He says that he “gave it another shot.” “T o give something another shot” (shot) means to try something again. “To give  something a shot” means to try it. “To give something another shot” means to t ry it again, especially if you were not able to do it correctly or successfully the first time. Now we hear Martin’s second outgoing message:

“Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail for Martin Na vra at McQ Corp. I’m in a meeting or away from my desk. Please leave a messag e and I’ll call you back as soon as I can. If your call is urgent, please conta ct Julia Mann at 555-434-3232. Thank you.”

The second message that Martin records is a little different. He says, “You’ve reached the voice mail for Martin Navra” instead of  “You’ve reached Martin

Navra.” This is more correct technically, because i f you’re listening to a recording, you haven’t reached – that is, you haven ’t successfully contacted – Martin Navra. You’ve only reached his voice mail. M artin continues, “I’m in a meeting or away from my desk.” This is a very commo n thing for people to say in their outgoing message. They’re giving you basicall y a reason, an excuse, for why they could not answer your phone call.

“I’m in a meeting,” meaning I’m meeting with other people or I’m away from my desk. “To be away from your desk” means not to be s itting at your desk so you can answer the phone. They’re saying to you that I’ m not just sitting here playing video games and ignoring my phone; I’m actually not  here. Well, that’s what they say, anyway.

Martin continues, “If your call is urgent, please c ontact Julia Mann.” Something that is “urgent” (urgent) is something you need to do right away, something that has to be done immediately. Martin is saying that i f what you are calling me about needs to be acted on immediately, you should call this other person. Here, it’s Julia Mann. And then he gives Julia’s telephon e number. Notice that the telephone number begins “555.”

“555” is often used in American movies and televisi on shows when someone is giving their telephone number because there are no telephone numbers in the United States that begin with “555.” So, you know it’s not a real number when someone says that their phone number is “555.” If y ou come to the United States and you meet a beautiful woman at a bar, and she gi ves you her telephone number and it says “555,” it’s not really her telep hone number. Sorry, dude.

Martin says that his second recording “seemed okay. ” “But since I was leaving on vacation next week,” he says, “I needed to record a  temporary outgoing message as well.” “Temporary” means for a short time. Marti n has to record a special outgoing message for the time when he is going to b e on vacation. He says, “This is what I came up with.” “To come up with” so mething means to invent something or to create something.

“Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail of Martin Nav ra at McQ Corp. I will be on vacation from March 3rd through March 10th. If you need to reach someone immediately, please call Julia Mann at 555-434-3232 , or dial zero to reach reception. Otherwise, please leave a message and I’ ll return your call when I return. Thank you.”

In this “vacation message,” Martin says, “I’m going  to be on vacation from March 3rd through March 10th. He continues, “If you need to reach someone

immediately . . .” As we mentioned earlier, “to rea ch” someone means to successfully contact someone – to actually talk to the person you are trying to talk to. Martin says that if you need to talk to so meone right now, please call Julia Mann, and then he gives her phone number. “Or,” he says, “dial zero to reach reception.” “To dial” (dial) nowadays means to pres s a number on what’s called a “keypad” for the telephone.

This verb “to dial” comes from telephones as they e xisted many years ago, when I was growing up, that had actual round circles on them called “dials.” A “dial” in general is the front of a watch or a clock that has  numbers on it. Well, in the old days telephones had dials, and you would move the d ial around in a circle in order to call a telephone number. We’ve kept that v erb “to dial” to mean the same thing, but now you don’t actually move your fingers  around on a dial. You simply press a number and it produces an electronic tone.

Martin says in his outgoing message that “you can d ial zero to reach reception.” “Reception” (reception) is usually the area where p eople are greeted in an office building. When you first come into an office, there ’s often someone sitting at a desk who asks your name, and who you are there to s ee, and so forth. In this case, it would be the person who answers general ph one calls for the company. If you dial zero, you will reach someone who works for the company who can then perhaps connect you with another person, or of  whom you can ask questions of, in order to get the information you n eed.

We finish the story by Martin saying, “I was finall y done. The good thing is, whenever I call to retrieve my voice mail messages,  I can bypass my outgoing message.” “To retrieve” (retrieve) means to get som ething – often, to get something back that you used to have. We use this v erb also when we are talking about getting your voice mail messages, hea ring your voice mail messages.

Remember we talked about how phone companies record  your message for you, and then you call them and you can get your message  from their computer. You are “retrieving” your message. You are getting it b ack, if you will. “To bypass” (bypass) is a verb meaning to get to where you want  to go without having to go to a certain place, by using a different route or path  to get to where you want to go. In this case, Martin wants to get to his voice mail  messages so he can bypass his own outgoing message. He doesn’t have to listen to it. He can take a different route to get to his message.

The word “bypass” is most commonly used when we’re talking about driving. It is a road or a freeway that goes around a big city so that you don’t have to go

 through the middle of the city. You can “bypass” the city; you can go around the city to get to where you want to go on the other si de of the city. Martin ends by saying, “With any luck” – that is, if he is lucky –  “I’ll never have to hear my own voice again – ever!”

Now let’s listen to the story, this time at a norma l speed.

[start of story]

I hate the sound of my own voice. I always have. Wh en I’m speaking to an audience, I always sound forced and unnatural. So w hen we had to set up our new voice mail system’s outgoing message, it took m e a few tries to get it right.

“Hello, you’ve reached Martin Navra at McQ Corp. I’ m not available to take your call right now. Please leave a message and I’ll cal l you back as soon as I can. Thank you for calling.”

No, that wasn’t quite right. I gave it another shot .

“Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail for Martin Na vra at McQ Corp. I’m in a meeting or away from my desk. Please leave a messag e and I’ll call you back as soon as I can. If your call is urgent, please conta ct Julia Mann at 555-434-3232. Thank you.”

That seemed okay, but since I was leaving on vacati on next week, I needed to record a temporary outgoing message as well. This is what I came up with.

“Hello, you’ve reached the voice mail of Martin Nav ra at McQ Corp. I will be on vacation from March 3rd through March 10th. If you need to reach someone immediately, please call Julia Mann at 555-434-3232 , or dial “0” to reach reception. Otherwise, please leave a message and I’ ll return your call when I return. Thank you.”

I was finally done. The good thing is, whenever I c all to retrieve my voice mail messages, I can bypass my outgoing message. With an y luck, I’ll never have to hear my own voice again – ever!

[end of story]

There’s nothing forced or unnatural about the Engli sh used in our dialogues. That’s because they’re written by the wonderful Dr.  Lucy Tse.



