# Dealing With Rising Production Costs

COMPLETE TRANSCRIPT
Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 952 – Dealing with Rising Production Costs.
This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 952. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.
Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there. Become a member of ESL Podcast and download a Learning Guide for this episode.
This episode is a dialogue between Giovanni and Melanie. It's a business-related episode about the increasing cost of making things in a business. Let’s get started.

[start of dialogue]
Giovanni: There are no two ways about it. We have to raise prices.
Melanie: We can’t. We already raised prices earlier this year. Doing it again risks alienating our customers.
Giovanni: What else can we do? Our production costs have risen nearly 15 percent. We’ve tried absorbing them and offsetting them, but nothing has worked. Our profit margin continues to shrink and we don’t have any other choice.
Melanie: What about lowering the quality of our raw materials? We could use a cheaper supplier.
Giovanni: That’s a sure way to lose customers. If we start cutting corners on quality, our customers will leave in droves.
Melanie: What if we discontinue manufacturing some of the less popular items? That should save us some money.
Giovanni: Not enough. We either raise prices or stop production altogether.
Melanie: There is one other option.
Giovanni: What?

Melanie: We could reduce our workforce.
Giovanni: You mean fire people? That’s off the table!
[end of dialogue]

Our dialogue begins with Giovanni saying to Melanie, “There are no two ways about it.” This expression, “There are no two ways (ways) about it,” is used when you are telling someone there is only one answer or one solution to some problem that you have. There are no other options; there's only this one possibility. Giovanni says, “There are no two ways about it. We have to raise prices.” The “price” (price) of something is how much it costs. “To raise (raise) prices” means to increase prices. The opposite would be “to lower prices.” Melanie, however, says, “We can't” – we cannot raise prices. “We already raised prices earlier this year. Doing it again risks alienating our customers.” “To risk” means to put in danger of, or to possibly cause a bad situation to happen. Melanie says if they raise their prices again, they may alienate their customers. “To alienate” (alienate) means to make someone feel unwelcome, to make someone feel excluded. “To alienate” someone, more generally, means to make someone mad, to make them angry, so angry that they don't want to be part of
your group anymore – or in this case, they don't want to buy anything from you. Giovanni says, “What else can we do? Our production costs have risen nearly 15 percent.” The “cost” of something is how much money you have to spend to do it. “Production” (production) comes from the verb “to produce,” which means to make something. “Production cost” refers to how much it costs to make usually a physical object, although it could also be something like a movie. We talk about “movie production costs” here in Los Angeles all the time. Well, I don't. Some people do.

Giovanni says that he and Melanie have tried “absorbing” these costs and
“offsetting them,” but nothing has worked. “To absorb” (absorb) here means to
take care of or to accept increased costs in a business without making the prices
higher for the customers – without raising the prices. So, for example, if
something that you need to make your product that you sell increases in price,
you don't increase the price that you charge your customer; you absorb it.
Basically, you're going to make less money.
Giovanni says they've tried “absorbing” the increasing production costs as well as
“offsetting” them. “To offset” (offset) means to make up for – often, to do the opposite of something in order to have some sort of balance. In this case, it
probably means that they've decreased the costs elsewhere in their company.
They've tried to save money in another part of their business in order to make
sure they can still make money on the product they're selling.
Giovanni says, “Our profit margin continues to shrink and we don't have any
other choice.” Your “profit” (profit) is how much money you make. It's when you
take in more money than you spend. When you receive more money from your
customers, then you spend to produce what you are selling to your customers.
Don't confuse this “profit” with (prophet). That sort of prophet is someone who
predicts the future. You hear that term often in relation to the Bible.
But there's nothing biblical here. We’re talking business, and Giovanni is talking
about profit margins. Your “profit margin” (margin) is the actual percentage that
you make. Giovanni says, “Our profit margin continues to shrink.” “Shrink”
(shrink) means to become smaller. In this case, it means to be lowered. The
profit margin is less and less.
Melanie says, “What about lowering the quality of our raw materials?” “To lower
the quality” means, basically, to use things that aren't as good as other things
that you might be able to use. The quality of your product is how good it is, how
well made it is. “Raw (raw) materials” are the things you use to make the product
that you sell. If I am selling tables or chairs made of wood, the raw materials
would be the wood itself, and nails, and perhaps paint, and anything else I use to
make the chair. The final product is the chair, but the chair is made from raw
materials.
“Raw” normally means not cooked. We talk about “raw meat.” That would be
meat that has not yet been cooked – has not yet been put over a fire or placed in
an oven. Here, however, it just means materials that are not in their final form. I
was watching a program on television a few nights ago, and there was this young
girl, maybe 15 years old, singing. She had a wonderful voice. Her singing wasn't
perfect, but she had a lot of what we would describe as “raw talent,” “raw skill,”
“raw ability.” It's something she needs to make better. It’s something she needs
to work on to “refine” (refine) – to make it so that it is a final product.
Melanie says, “We could use a cheaper supplier.” “Cheaper” means less
expensive – something that doesn't cost you as much money. A “supplier”
(supplier) is someone who sells you raw materials or sells you things that you
use in your business and helps you sell your product or make your product to
sell. Giovanni disagrees with Melanie. He doesn't think they should use a
cheaper supplier. He says, “That's a sure way to lose customers.” “That's a sure
way to lose customers” means that's a guaranteed way, or that’s something that
will definitely result in losing customers.
He says, “If we start cutting corners on quality, our customers will leave in
droves.” “To cut corners” means to do something more quickly or less
expensively – more cheaply, but at a lower quality. “To cut corners” means to do
something in such a way that you're getting it done, but it is not as good as it
could be or should be. “To leave in droves” (droves) means that many people will
leave. “Droves” here refers to a large group of people. “To leave in droves”
means that most of your customers are going to leave. That's what Giovanni
says will happen if they cut corners on quality.
Melanie then asks, “What if we discontinue manufacturing some of the less
popular items?” “To discontinue” (discontinue) means to stop doing something, to
no longer do something. “Manufacturing” comes from the verb “to manufacture”
(manufacture), which is another verb for “to produce,” “to make.” Melanie is
suggesting they stop making some of the less popular items – the products they
make that don't sell as much. “That would save us some money,” she says.
Giovanni says, “Not enough” – not enough money, he means. “We either raise
prices or stop production altogether.” “Altogether” (altogether) means entirely or
completely. Don't confuse that with two separate words, “all” (all) and “together.”
When someone says, “We’re going to do this all together,” he means we’re going
to do it all as a group. We are going to each do it at the same time. But
“altogether” as one word, with one “l,” means completely, entirely.
Melanie says, “There is one other option.” Giovanni says, “What?” Melanie
replies, “We could reduce our workforce.” “To reduce” means to lower the
number of. “Workforce” (workforce) – one word – refers to the people who work
for a company. Melanie is suggesting that they get rid of a few of their
employees, basically. Giovanni says, “You mean fire people?” “To fire” means to
tell someone they no longer have a job at your company.
Giovanni says, “That’s off the table!” The expression “to be off the table” (table)
means it's not an option. It's not under consideration. We might say, “It's out of
the question.” You're not even going to consider that as a possibility.
Now let's listen to the dialogue, this time at a normal speed.