# Being Chivalrous and Protective

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 902: Being Chivalrous and Protective.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 902. I'm your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Our website is ESLPod.com. If you go there and beco me a member, you can download a Learning Guide for this episode.

This episode is about a man and a woman. The man is  going to be chivalrous, or at least that's what we hope. Let’s get started. > When I first met Lance, I thought he was the perfec t guy.  He was a real gentleman.  He opened doors for me and pulled out m y chair in restaurants.  He was as chivalrous as they come.  But after a while,  I realized that he took chivalry a little too far. ...
> Lance:  Let me carry that box for you.
> Guinevere:  No, that’s okay.  It’s not heavy.
> Lance:  It doesn’t matter.  I’m your boyfriend and I can’t have you carrying a box when my hands are free.
> Guinevere:  Is that some kind of code of conduct I don’t know about?
> Lance:  It’s how a knight would treat his lady.
> Guinevere:  That’s nice, but I’m perfectly capable of carrying my own box, thank you.
> Lance:  Don’t argue.  It’s my duty to show every co urtesy to my girlfriend, so give me that box.
> Guinevere:  Are you saying that your code of conduc t takes precedence over my preferences?
> Our story begins with Guinevere telling us about ho w she met this man by the name of Lance. She says, “When I first met Lance” –  when I met him the first time – “I thought he was the perfect guy” – the per fect man, the perfect person. “Guy” here would probably refer to a man, however. Sometimes, people will use “guys” in the plural to mean both men and women, bu t when it's singular, it's usually a man, I think.

Anyway, Guinevere says that this Lance was a real g entleman. A “gentleman” (gentleman) is a man who behaves well, who acts nic e, especially with women. A man who has good manners could be called a gentlema n. “Lance opened doors for me and pulled out my chair in restaurants.” The se are two things that traditionally gentlemen – men with good manners – a re supposed to do. If you are walking into a building and there is a woman wi th you, as the man, you are supposed to open the door and let her walk in first . Similarly, if you are sitting down at a restaurant somewhere, or sitting down to eat, the man will go over and pulled the chair out to make it easier for the woma n to sit down so the woman doesn't have to pull her own chair out. That's what  Lance did with Guinevere when they first were dating, when they first were g oing out as a romantic couple.

“Lance,” Guinevere tells us, “was as chivalrous as they come.” “Chivalrous” (chivalrous) is similar to being a gentleman. It me ans to be courteous. It means to be well mannered. It means to pay special attent ion to being nice to women. “Chivalrous” is an adjective. “Gentleman” is a noun . The two are related, however. We describe a man who acts like a gentlema n as being chivalrous, especially when we're talking about how that man tr eats or acts toward women. Guinevere says, “He was as chivalrous as they come. ” The expression “as they come” means more than other people, or simply very much. “He's as rich as they come” would mean he is one of the richest people yo u will ever know. He's very rich.

“Lance was as chivalrous as they come. But after a while,” Guinevere says, “I realized that he took his chivalry a little too far .” “To take something too far” means to do too much of something or to go to such an extreme that now it's

almost a bad thing. You're doing it too much. “Chiv alry” is the noun related to the adjective “chivalrous.” Well, Lance apparently is t aking his chivalry too far.

We begin then with the dialogue. Lance says to Guin evere, “Let me carry that box for you.” That might be another thing the gentl eman might do for a woman – carry her bags or carry her things that are heavy.

Guinevere says, “No, that's okay. It's not heavy.” Lance says, “It doesn't matter.” That's not important. “I'm your boyfriend and I can 't have you carrying a box when my hands are free.” The expression “to have yo ur hands free” means that you're not holding anything, that you can use your hands to do something, in this case, to help carry the box. Guinevere says, “Is th at some kind of code of conduct I don't know about?” A “code” (code) is a s et of rules or laws. “Conduct” (conduct) is how you act. A “code of conduct” would  be rules for how you act, especially formal rules that some organization, per haps, creates. Guinevere is asking if what Lance wants to do is part of some ki nd of, or some variety of code of conduct.

Lance says, “It's how a knight would treat his lady .” A “knight” (knight) is a title of honor that is given to a man by the king or the que en. In the United States, we don't have a king or queen so we don't have knights . But, for example, in Great Britain, in the United Kingdom, there is a queen wh o makes some men, anyway, knights – people with a lot of power, a lot of infl uence. Important people are often knighted. We can even use that word as a verb, “to knight.” The term “lady” (lady) here means a woman with good manners, a woman with grace, a woman who is considered to be well behaved, well mannered.

Guinevere says, “That's nice, but I'm perfectly cap able of carrying my own box. Thank you.” “To be capable,” (capable) means to hav e the ability, to have the skills, or the knowledge to do something. “To be pe rfectly capable,” means you are completely capable. “Perfectly” is just a word to emphasize. It's sort of like “very” capable.

Lance says, “Don't argue. It's my duty to show ever y courtesy to my girlfriend so give me that box.” Lance is telling Guinevere not to disagree with him. “Don't argue.” Lance hasn’t been a boyfriend very long. Yo u got a lot to learn, Lance, let me tell you. Anyway, Guinevere says she's perfectly  capable of carrying her own box but Lance says that it's his “duty” (duty) to s how every “courtesy” (courtesy) to his girlfriend. Your “duty” is your obligation, your responsibility, the thing you are supposed to do. “Courtesy” is something that is  nice, something that is polite that you do to show your respect to someone, to sho w that you are well behaved,

that you have good manners. “Courtesy” is a noun th at describes those activities or those actions.

Guinevere says, “Are you saying that your code of c onduct takes precedence over my preferences?” “To take precedence (preceden ce) over something” means to be more important than something, to come before something. You should never let your job, your work, take preceden ce over your family. It should never be more important than your family.

Guinevere is asking if Lance’s code of conduct, his  rules for chivalry, take precedence over her preferences. Lance says, “No, I 'm just telling you that my job is to help and protect you even if it's against  your will.” “To protect someone” means to keep them safe, to make sure that nothing bad happens to them. “To do something against your will” means the opposite of what you want. “He did it against his will.” That means he didn't really want  to do it but he did it anyway. Lance is saying that it is his duty to protect Guin evere even if Guinevere doesn't want him to.

Guinevere ends our story by saying, “How can you ar gue with that logic?” “Logic (logic) is thinking, usually thinking in a rational , intelligent way. In some cases, it means following certain formal rules of reasoning, of thinking, of logic. We think about Aristotle and his writings about logic. In th is case, Guinevere is saying that it's difficult to try to convince Lance that he's w rong because he has this set of reasons that don't seem to allow for anyone to diff er with him. That's why she says, “How can you argue with that logic?” Sometime s we might say that when we think the person is correct and they are saying something we agree with – sometimes we might say this expression or use this expression when we think the person’s ideas are a little crazy and there is no way we could agree with them. It can have opposite meanings. I'm not sure w hich meaning it has for Guinevere.

Now let's listen to the dialogue, this time at a normal speed.

[start of story]

When I first met Lance, I thought he was the perfec t guy.  He was a real gentleman.  He opened doors for me and pulled out m y chair in restaurants.  He was as chivalrous as they come.  But after a while,  I realized that he took chivalry a little too far. ...

Lance:  Let me carry that box for you.

 Guinevere:  No, that’s okay.  It’s not heavy.

Lance:  It doesn’t matter.  I’m your boyfriend and I can’t have you carrying a box when my hands are free.

Guinevere:  Is that some kind of code of conduct I don’t know about?

Lance:  It’s how a knight would treat his lady.

Guinevere:  That’s nice, but I’m perfectly capable of carrying my own box, thank you.

Lance:  Don’t argue.  It’s my duty to show every co urtesy to my girlfriend, so give me that box.

Guinevere:  Are you saying that your code of conduc t takes precedence over my preferences?

Lance:  No, I’m just telling you that my job is to help and protect you, even if it’s against your will. ...

How can you argue with that logic?

[end of story]

Our script was written by a very capable lady indee d, Dr. Lucy Tse – “Lady Lucy,” we might call her.



