# Finding Emerging Markets

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast number 1,056 – Finding Emerging Markets.   This is English as a Second Language Podcast episode 1,056. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for Educational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.   Our website is ESLPod.com. Go there and become a member of ESL Podcast and download the Learning Guide for this episode.   My voice is a little strange today. I think I might be getting a cold. I’m not sure, but I hope you can still understand me. Today we’re going to talk about emerging markets in the business world. Let’s get started.  [start of dialogue]  Jamie: If our company is going to grow, we need to find emerging markets. It makes sense to get a foothold in a few countries that may have developed markets within the next 20 years.  Nina: But there’s no guarantee that rapid growth in a country’s economy now will be sustainable years from now. I think it’s too much of a gamble myself.  Jamie: There are certainly no guarantees, but by the time it all shakes out and it’s clear which markets are the most promising, we will have missed the boat.  Nina: So what are you suggesting? Should we pick one or two markets to invest in, or hedge our bets and invest in several?  Jamie: I think we should identify the countries that have shown strong economic growth in the past 10 years and focus on those.   Nina: I still think it may be too risky, but I’m willing to consider the idea. Work up a proposal and I’ll look at it.   Jamie: You will? This is great. I didn’t think you’d be so receptive.  Nina: I’m not making any promises, but I’ll keep an open mind. Just make it short and sweet. 