# Preventing Shoplifting

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 1,012 – Preventing Shoplifting.  

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 1,012. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.  

Visit our website at ESLPod.com. Like us on Faceboo k at facebook.com/eslpod, and follow us on Twitter at @eslpod.  

This episode is a dialogue between Thelma and Luis about preventing or stopping people from stealing things from the store  – what we call “shoplifting.” Let’s get started.  

[start of dialogue] 

Luis: Wow, what happened here? I was only away on v acation for two weeks. 

Thelma: While you were gone, we redesigned this sto re with an anti-theft system. 

Luis: Is that why there are surveillance cameras an d security guards everywhere? 

Thelma: That’s right. We’re losing too much money t o shoplifters, and I’m finally doing something about it. From now on, it’s zero to lerance. I don’t care if they’re petty thieves or kleptomaniacs. I’m rooting out eve ry instance of shoplifting and prosecuting to the full extent of the law. 

Luis: What are all these cases for? 

Thelma: I’m putting the pricier merchandise under l ock and key, and I’ve put security tags on most other items. I’m weighing whe ther to do exit inspections. I don’t want to go overboard. 

Luis: [sighs] No, you wouldn’t want to do that. 

[end of dialogue] 

We begin with Luis saying to Thelma, “Wow, what hap pened here?” I should explain, before we get into the dialogue, that Luis  is spelled (Luis) if it’s a man. If  

it’s a woman, it’s spelled as (Louise). The same pr onunciation is used, but we have a different spelling.  

Luis then asks Thelma, “What happened here? I was o nly away on vacation for two weeks.” Thelma says, “While you were gone” – wh ile you were on vacation – “we redesigned this store within an anti-theft syst em.” So, Luis and Thelma are inside some kind of store. Luis works at the store.  However, he went on vacation, and when he came back, he found that things had cha nged.  

Thelma says that they “redesigned” the store. “To r edesign” means to design again. Really, it means here to change the way some thing is organized, especially if you’re talking about a place such as a store or a house or any room that you have. You could also redesign a car. You c ould redesign a program for your school. We can use it both for physical things  and for nonphysical things. Here, we’re talking about the store in which Thelma  and Luis work. Part of the redesign of the store was to put in an “anti-theft system.”  

“Theft” refers to stealing. “Anti-” (anti-) is some thing that is against. We use that prefix quite frequently in English. You can talk ab out “anti-discrimination laws” – laws that are against discrimination. You could tal k about “anti-freeze,” which you put in your car in places where it gets very cold. “Anti-theft” would be something that is trying to stop or prevent theft. It could a lso mean that you’re against theft – you don’t like it. It’s a bad idea. But here, it re ally refers to some change that was made in the store to prevent people from stealing t hings from the store.  

Luis says, “Is that why there are surveillance came ras and security guards everywhere?” A “surveillance (surveillance) camera”  is a small video camera that is always on. It’s always recording whatever is goi ng on in the room. Many buildings have surveillance cameras. Even some hous es have surveillance cameras on the outside and the inside so you can se e what’s going on. They are designed to produce a video of anyone who might com e into the store or come into the building and steal something or do somethi ng wrong.  

A “security guard” is a person who protects a build ing or a house or someplace. Security guards aren’t police officers. They don’t work for the government. Security guards are typically people who work for p rivate companies but who also try to protect a building or a house. Thelma s ays, “That’s right,” meaning yes, there are surveillance cameras and security gu ards as part of this new anti- theft system.  

She goes on to say, “We’re losing too much money to  shoplifters, and I’m finally doing something about it.” The word “shop” is somet imes used as a noun to  

describe a store, especially a smaller store. The t erm “shoplifting” refers to stealing something from the store. “To lift” someth ing is to raise it up, usually with your hands. Sometimes, however, we use that word “l ift” to mean “steal,” and in the case of shoplifting, we’re referring to people who are stealing things from a store. A “shoplifter” is a person who steals. 

Thelma says, “From now on, it’s zero tolerance.” “Z ero tolerance” (tolerance) is a policy or a rule that says that you are not going t o allow this even once. There are no exceptions to the policy. For example, let’s  say a school has a zero- tolerance policy against students who are drinking.  (We’re talking now about high school. Remember, in the United States you can’t dr ink legally until you’re 21 years old.)  

If the school has a zero-tolerance policy on drinki ng, that means that if a student is caught drinking – say, by a teacher – there is n o “next time” for that student. The student is removed from the school. Even one vi olation, even one time breaking the rule, is enough for you to perhaps be expelled, or kicked out of a school. That’s a zero-tolerance policy. Well, Thelm a has a zero-tolerance policy on shoplifters.  

She explains, “I don’t care if they’re petty thieve s or kleptomaniacs. I’m rooting out every instance of shoplifting and prosecuting t o the full extent of the law.” What Thelma is saying here is that she is going to catch every single person who steals something, and she’s going to have that pers on punished. It doesn’t matter if the person steals something small or something l arge, if a person steals something only once or many times.  

She says, “I don’t care if they,” meaning the thiev es, “are petty thieves.” “Petty” (petty) is something that is small or unimportant. A “petty thief” would be a person that steals small things, maybe a $10 bracelet or a  $5 T-shirt – something that is not worth a lot of money. A “kleptomaniac” (kleptom aniac) is a person who steals all the time because they have almost like a diseas e; they need to steal things. They are addicted, if you will, to stealing. 

Thelma says, “I’m rooting out every instance of sho plifting.” “To root (root) out” is a two-word phrasal verb meaning to investigate and then eliminate anything that you don’t want. “We’re going to root out corruption  in government.” “Corruption” is when government officials get money from people to do things – illegally, that is. “To root out corruption” would be to get rid of  corruption, to find it and then get rid of it. Thelma is going to root out “every insta nce of” – every case of – “shoplifting.”  

She’s also going to “prosecute to the full extent o f the law.” The verb “to prosecute” (prosecute) means to pursue some sort of  legal action against a person, especially a person who has committed a cri me against you. Technically, the government is the one that prosecutes in a cour t of law before a judge, but you as the business owner can demand or at least re quest that the government go after this person, arrest this person, and punis h this person.  

The “full extent of” something is as much as possib le, as much as allowed. The expression “to the full extent of the law” means as  much as the law allows you to. If the law says this person can be arrested and pun ished with one year in jail, that’s what you’re going to try to get for that per son. You’re going to try to get the government to punish that person for an entire year . That would be “prosecuting to the full extent of the law” – arresting people f or every crime that they commit.  

Luis says, “What are all these cases for?” He’s ref erring to what are probably metal and glass containers that are used in a store  when you have something that is valuable that you want people to see, but y ou don’t want people to steal. If you go into a jewelry store, for example, the diamo nd rings are not just sitting there for you to grab and look at. They’re in, typi cally, a case, and the case is locked. You can see them, but you can’t touch them.  You have to ask the person at the store to take them out of the case so you ca n look at them.  

Thelma says, “I’m putting the pricier” – the more e xpensive – “merchandise under lock and key.” “Merchandise” (merchandise) is  a general term referring to anything that you sell. It could be a shoe. It coul d be a computer. It could be a car. All of these could be considered merchandise. The expression “to put something under lock and key” means to take somethi ng and lock it up so that only someone who has a key to the lock can open the  lock and get whatever it is that you are protecting. “To put something under lo ck and key” is to put it in a place where it is safe.  

Thelma says, “I’ve put security tags on most other items.” A “security tag” (tag) is a small device that is attached to something that a  store sells. What happens is when you walk out of the store and you don’t pay fo r the item and the item still has a security tag on it, an alarm will go off.  

This is quite common in American clothing stores, f or example. The clothing all have security tags on them, and if you walk out of the store without paying for it and without removing the tag – which is very diffic ult to remove without a special machine – the security system will be alerted and u sually there’ll be a loud noise made, indicating you’re trying to steal something. So, it’s not a very good idea to  

try to steal something, especially from one of the bigger stores here in the U.S. Of course, you shouldn’t steal from any store.  

Thelma says she’s “weighing whether to do exit insp ections.” “To weigh” (weigh) here means to consider the advantages and disadvant ages of something – to consider what we might call the “pros and cons” of some action. “Exit inspections” are when you go to a store and there a re security guards that look at you and check the shopping bags you have to make su re that you haven’t stolen anything.  

Thelma says she doesn’t “want to go overboard.” The  expression “to go overboard” (overboard) here means to do too much of  something – to do something at an extreme level, we might say. Litera lly, on a ship or a boat, to go overboard means to fall out of the boat or fall out  of the ship into the water, but we use it in a situation such as this to mean to go  too far, to do too much of something.  

Luis says, “No, you wouldn’t want to do that.” It s eems like Luis thinks that Thelma has already gone overboard – has already don e too much with all of these different security measures now.  

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a no rmal speed.  

[start of dialogue] 

Luis: Wow, what happened here? I was only away on v acation for two weeks. 

Thelma: While you were gone, we redesigned this sto re with an anti-theft system. 

Luis: Is that why there are surveillance cameras an d security guards everywhere? 

Thelma: That’s right. We’re losing too much money t o shoplifters, and I’m finally doing something about it. From now on, it’s zero to lerance. I don’t care if they’re petty thieves or kleptomaniacs. I’m rooting out eve ry instance of shoplifting and prosecuting to the full extent of the law. 

Luis: What are all these cases for? 

Thelma: I’m putting the pricier merchandise under l ock and key, and I’ve put security tags on most other items. I’m weighing whe ther to do exit inspections. I don’t want to go overboard.  

 Luis: [sighs] No, you wouldn’t want to do that. 

[end of dialogue] 

This script is another instance of the wonderful wo rk done by our very own Dr. Lucy Tse. Thank you, Lucy. 

From Los Angeles, California, I’m Jeff McQuillan. T hank you for listening. Come back and listen to us again right here on ESL Podca st. 

