# Collecting Debt

Welcome to English as a Second Language Podcast num ber 1,152 – Collecting Debt.

This is English as a Second Language Podcast episod e 1,152. I’m your host, Dr. Jeff McQuillan, coming to you from the Center for E ducational Development in beautiful Los Angeles, California.

Visit our website at ESLPod.com. Become a member of  ESL Podcast. When you do, you can download the Learning Guide for this ep isode. You can also like us on Facebook. Go to facebook.com/eslpod.

On this episode, we’re going to listen to a dialogu e between Ken and Marjorie about getting money back from someone you lent it t o. Let’s get started.

[start of dialogue]

Ken: Look at this list of customers who still owe u s money. How is this business supposed to survive if we keep extending credit?

Marjorie: We started doing it because some of our b est customers didn’t have ready cash. They’re good for it.

Ken: I know they’ll eventually pay their outstandin g debt, but what are we supposed to do in the meantime? We need that cash t o buy stock.

Marjorie: We can call in the debt and set a deadlin e for repayment. We can give those who are really hard up an extension on a case -by-case basis.

Ken: What if they still don’t pay? We’d have to tur n it over to a collection agency. We’d only get 40 cents on the dollar, but we’ll hav e to close our doors if we don’t collect.

Marjorie: Using a collection agency would be a last  resort. I’ll call each of our major debtors and have a talk with them. I’m sure t hey’ll come through.

Ken: I hope you’re right or we will be the ones ask ing for credit!

[end of dialogue]

This episode is called “Collecting Debt” (debt) – n otice the “b” is silent when we pronounce the word. “Debt” is money that you owe so meone else, money that someone else who gave you to use temporarily, but t hat you have to give back to that person. “To collect debt” means to get the mon ey back from someone who doesn’t want to pay you back or perhaps is slow in paying you back.

Ken begins our dialogue by saying, “Look at this li st of customers who still owe us money.” “To owe” (owe) someone is to be expected  – and in fact, required – to pay someone something or to do something for som eone else. If you owe someone money, you have to give that money back to someone. The idea usually with “owe” is that the other person has don e something for you or, in the case of a debt, given you money.

Ken continues, “How is this business supposed to su rvive if we keep extending credit?” “To extend (extend) credit (credit)” means  to allow someone to buy something now and pay for it later. You’re probably  familiar with the term “credit card.” A “credit card” is an account – an agreement , basically – you have with a bank or a, what we would call, “financial instituti on” that allows you to buy things now and pay for them later. Individual stores can a lso extend credit to their customers. They can allow you to buy things and the n pay for it later.

This store that Ken and Marjorie have extends credi t to its customers, but many of the customers still owe them money. Marjorie say s, “We started doing it” – that is, extending credit – “because some of our best cu stomers didn’t have ready cash.” “Ready (ready) cash (cash)” is money that yo u can spend right now. If a business has ready cash, it can go out and buy some thing and pay for it right away. It has money available. If a business doesn’t  have ready cash, well, then it doesn’t have the money in its bank account to buy t he things it needs to buy.

Marjorie says that the best customers are “good for  it.” The expression “to be good for it” means to be trustworthy, to be reliabl e – most importantly, to be able to pay back money that you owe. If someone says to you, “Give me $10. I’m good for it,” that person is saying to you, “I will  pay you back later. I am a responsible person. I have enough money. I just don ’t have that money with me right now.” That’s sometimes true and sometimes isn ’t. If you’ve ever lent – that is, given – money to someone with the expectation t hat person will give it back to you, you probably know that isn’t always the case w hen someone says he’s good for it. He isn’t always good for it.

Anyway, Ken continues, “I know they’ll eventually” – in time, in the future – “pay their outstanding debt, but what are we supposed to  do in the meantime?” “Outstanding (outstanding) debt” is money that hasn ’t been paid on time. It’s debt

that you owe someone that is, we could say, “overdu e.” It’s late. “In the meantime” means while we are waiting for the people  to pay us back. Ken is asking what he and Marjorie and their business shou ld do while they are waiting for these customers to pay the money they owe back to the business.

Ken explains, “We need that cash,” that money, “to buy stock.” “Stock” (stock) here probably means the things that the store buys.  “Stock” can also refer to partial ownership you have in a company, something you would buy on what we call a “stock market.” But here, “stock” refers to physical goods – things that a store sells. Marjorie says, “We can call in the deb t and set a deadline for payment.” “To call in a debt” means to demand that the person who owes you money pay you immediately or as soon as possible. U sually, “calling in a debt” means requiring someone to pay money before the sch eduled time or before you had originally agreed to have them pay it.

When you borrow a large amount of money from someon e, often you pay that money back in payments, or installments. So, if you  borrow a thousand dollars, you may pay 100 dollars this month, 100 dollars nex t month, 100 dollars a month after that, and so forth. If, however, you miss one  of those payments, you’re late in paying the monthly payment, a bank or a store ma y call in your debt. They may require you to pay it all back now because you missed a payment, or they may set a deadline for repayment. A “deadline” is a  date by which you have to do something.

“Repayment of a debt” means giving all of the money  back to the person who loaned you the money. Marjorie says, “We can give t hose who are really hard up an extension on a case-by-case-basis.” If someone i s “hard up,” that person is in a difficult situation, especially a financial situa tion. Someone who doesn’t have a lot of money, who perhaps lost his job, might be “h ard up,” meaning he doesn’t have very much money. An “extension” (extension) is  additional time – in this case, to pay back your loan.

Sometimes a bank or a business, instead of calling in your debt, will give you more time to pay it. They will give you an extensio n. Marjorie says that she and Ken can do this with their customers on a “case-by- case basis.” A “case-by-case basis” would mean looking at the details of each pe rson or each situation and making a decision on that information, not on just one rule for everyone. Doing anything “case by case” means you don’t apply one r ule or one regulation to everyone. You look at the individual circumstances of each person. Ken says, “What if they still don’t pay? We’d have to turn it  over to a collection agency.”

If someone doesn’t pay you your money, especially i f you’re a business, you may go to another company who will try to get that mone y back for you. That company is called a “collection agency” (agency). N ow, the problem with a collection agency is that the collection agency wil l only give you part of the money that they collect back to you because, of cou rse, the collection agency has to make money. Ken says that they will only get  “40 cents on the dollar.” That means the collection agency will only give the m back 40 percent of every dollar that they get back from the person who owes the company money.

Ken says, “We’ll have to close our doors if we don’ t collect.” The expression “to close your doors” here means to close your business , to go out of business. Marjorie says, “Using a collection agency would be a last resort” (resort). A “last resort” is a choice or option that is the least fav orable, the one that you least want to do, but if you don’t have any other choice, any other option, then you will do that. For example, maybe you’ve lost your job and y ou don’t have any money, and you own a car. You don’t want to sell your car,  but as a last resort – if you really need money to, say, buy food – you may sell your car. That’s an example of a “last resort.”

Marjorie continues, “I’ll call each of our major de btors and have a talk with them.” “Debtors” (debtors) are people who owe you money, p eople who have the debt that they have to pay back to you. Marjorie says, “ I’m sure they’ll,” meaning these debtors, “they’ll come through.” The phrasal verb “ to come through” means to eventually do what you promise to do, to eventually  do what you are expected to do. It means to perform as you are expected to perf orm.

Ken says, “I hope you’re right or we will be the on es asking for credit,” meaning if these debtors don’t come through, Marjorie and Ken will have to go out asking for credit from the businesses they buy things from.

Now let’s listen to the dialogue, this time at a no rmal speed.

[start of dialogue]

Ken: Look at this list of customers who still owe u s money. How is this business supposed to survive if we keep extending credit?

Marjorie: We started doing it because some of our b est customers didn’t have ready cash. They’re good for it.

Ken: I know they’ll eventually pay their outstandin g debt, but what are we supposed to do in the meantime? We need that cash t o buy stock.

 Marjorie: We can call in the debt and set a deadlin e for repayment. We can give those who are really hard up an extension on a case -by-case basis.

Ken: What if they still don’t pay? We’d have to tur n it over to a collection agency. We’d only get 40 cents on the dollar, but we’ll hav e to close our doors if we don’t collect.

Marjorie: Using a collection agency would be a last  resort. I’ll call each of our major debtors and have a talk with them. I’m sure t hey’ll come through.

Ken: I hope you’re right or we will the be ones ask ing for credit!

[end of dialogue]

Here at ESL Podcast, we certainly owe a debt of gra titude, of thanks, to our wonderful scriptwriter, Dr. Lucy Tse.



